"I Know My Mother's Hand" (16 Jun 1865)
Written by W. Dexter Smith Jr.
Music by Henry Tucker

Boston: G. D. RUSSELL & COMPANY, 126 Tremont, Opp. Park St.
[Source: 200002144@LoC/IHAS-CWM]

    In one of our late battles a young lieutenant had
his right foot so shattered by a fragment of a shell
that, on reaching Washington after one of those
horrible ambulance rides, and a journey of a week’s
duration, he was obbliged to undergo amputation of the
 leg.  He telegraphed home, hundreds of miles away, that
all was going well, and with a soldier’s fortitude com-
posed himself to bear his sufferings alone.
    Unknown to him, however, his mother, one of those
dear reserved of the army, hastened up to join the
main force.  She reached the city at midnight, and
the nurses would have kept her from him until morn-
ing.  One sat by his side fanning him as he slept, her
hand on the feeble, fluctuating pulsations which fore
boded sad results.  But what woman’s heart could re-
sist the pleasings of a mother then?  In the darkness,
she was finally allowed to glide in and take the place
at hie sde.  She touched his pulse as the nurse had
done.  Not a word had been spoken; but the sleeping
boy opened his eyes and said: “That feels like my
mother’s hand!  Who is this besides me?  It is my
mother; turn up the gas, and let me see mother!”
    The two dear faces met in one long, joyful sobbing
embrace, and the fondness pent up in each heart sob-
bed and panted and wept forth its expression.
    The gallant fellow, just twenty-one, his leg ampu-
tated on the last day of his three year service, un-
derwent operation after operation, and at last,
when death drew nigh, and he was told by tearful
friends that it only remained to make him com-
fortable, said: “he had looked death in the face too
many times to be afraid now,” and died
as gallantly as did the men of the
Cumberland.

1. 
Thro’ the darkness I have listened, 
For the music of her voice, 
For the gentle words of comfort 
That would make my heart rejoice; 
All the weary hours I’ve counted, 
Measured o’er and  o’er again— 
Yet no Mother came to cheer me, 
Or to soothe my throbbing tears.

CHORUS [sung after each verse, may be omitted]
I have prayed she might be near me,
Ere I seek that other Land
And I feel she is beside me
For I know my mother’s hand.

2. 
Hark! I hear familiar footsteps
And a well remembered sigh
Bringing back the distant moments
When youths changeful hours went by;
And I feel the gentle pressure
On my brow, thy kisses fanned
Yes, I know she is beside me,
I can feel my mother’s hand.

3. 
Mother!— yes, it is my mother,
She is here beside me now.
In the world there is no other
Who can calm my burning brow;
Let me look upon her features
Which I oft with love have scanned,
Oh! I know it is my mother,
For I feel her gentle hand.
