Respectfully inscribed to Mrs. Jenny L. Bates
of Grand Rapids, Mich.
"By-and-By" (28 Dec. 1865)
Song.
Written by L. J. Bates
Composed by Thomas Martin Towne, 1835-1912
Pub: Milwaukee: H. N. Hempstead, 410 Main Str., Plate No. 139.
[At LoC: CALL NO.  M1621.T]

1.
Under the snow are the roses of June;
  Cold in our bosoms the hops of our youth;
Gone are the wildbirds that warbled in tune;
  Mute are the lips that have pledg'd us their truth.
Wind of the winter night, lonely as I,
Wait we the dawn of the bright by-and-by.
    Roses shall bloom again;
    Sweet love will come again:
It will be summer-time, by-and-by.

2.
Patience and toil are the meed of the day--
  Toil without recompense, patience in vain;
Darkness and terror lie thick on our way;
  Our footsteps keep time with the angel of pain.
Wind of the winter night, far in the sky,
Watch for the day star of dear by-and-by.
    Parch'd lips shall quaff again;
    Sad souls shall laugh again;
Earth will be happier, by-and-by.

3.
Cruel and cold is the judgement of man--
  Cruel as winter, and cold as the snow;
But by-and-by, will the deep and the plan
  Be judged by the motive that lieth below.
Wail of the winter wind, echo our cry,
Pray for the dawn of the sweet by-and-by,
    When hope shall spring again;
    When joy shall sing again:
Truth will be verified, by-and-by.

4.
Weary and heart-sick we totter along;
  Feeble the back, tho' the burthen is large;
Broken the purpose, and hushed is the song:
  Why should we linger on life's little marge?
Wind of the winter night, hush! and reply;
Is there, oh! is there a glad by-and-by?
    Will dark grow bright again,
    Burthens grow light again,
And faith be justified, by-and-by?

5.
Dreary and dark is the midnight of war;
  Distant and dreamy the triumph of right;
Homes that are desolate, hearts that are sore,
  Soon shall the morning-star gladden our sight.
Wail of the winter wind, so like a sigh,
Herald the dawn of the blest by-and-by.
    Freedom shall reign again,
    Peace banish pain again,
Right will be glorified by-and-by.
