Affectionately inscribed
to the
Dear Ones at Home.
"Welcome Song
of the
40th Wisconsin Volunteers" (10 Oct 1864)
[No. 1355; 28579; Copyright Library 5 Aug 1865; M1640.T]
Words by Lieut. Sanford Fillmore Bennett, 1836-1898
Music by
Principal Musician
Thomas Martin Towne, 1835-1912

Chicago: ROOT & CADY, 95 Clark St.
Plate No. 410 4
[Source: 200002099@LoC/IHAS/CWM]

1.
Peerless Wisconsin once more do we greet thee!
  O'er us are shining thy beautiful skies!
State in whose every city and hamlet
  The flag of the Union trimphantly flies!
Hearts that remember have waited our coming,
  Longing to greet us with generous cheer:
Brightly hath dawned the expected tomorrow--
  Friends of the Fortieth, lo! we are here!

CHORUS [sung after each verse]
Fling out the flag of the welcoming breeze.
Treason shall stain it, no, never!
Neath it, and for it, united we stand,
Pledged to defend it forever!

2.
Welcome green hills of Wisconsin and welcome
  Valleys that lie in their beauty between.
Rivers that flow with a murmur of gladness.
  Forests of verdure and meadows of green!
Dear to the heart of thy soldiers returning.
  Beauties that gladden thy bounteous plains,
Where Freedom dispenses the wealth of her blessings,
  And full handed Plenty unceasingly reigns!

3.
Welcome the maids who embraced us at parting.
  Welcome the mothers who left us in tears.
Welcome the wives who have watched thro' the gloaming
  With faith that could suffer unshaken by fears.
Welcome the fathers who morning and evening,
  Have dealt at the altar and blessed us in prayer.
Welcome the hearthstones we loved to remember.
  Welcome the little ones clustering there.

4.
Sorrow is mixed with the joy of our greeting--
  Grief for the boys who are with us no more!
Ne'er to our ranks can the bugle recall them.
  Silent they slumber on Tennessee's shore!
Braver boys never the musket had shouldered.
  Truer boys never the saber had drawn:
On the proud roll with America's heroes
  Fame writes the names of the boys that are gone.
