Dedicated to All true Reformers.
"The Moneyless Man" (1875)
Words by Henry Stanton
Music by Thomas Martin Towne, 1835-1912

1.
Is there no place on the face of the earth,
Where charity dwelleth where virtue has birth?
Where bosoms in kindness and mercy will heave,
And the poor and the wretch-ed shall ask and receive?
Is there no place where a knock from the poor
Will bring a kind angel to open the door?
Ah! search the wide world wherever you can,
There is no open door for the moneyless man,
Ah! search the wide world wherever you can,
There is no open door for the moneyless man,

2.
Go look in your church of the cloud reaching spire,
Which gives back to the sun his same look of fire,
Where the arches and columns are gorgeous within,
And the walls seem as pure as a soul without sin;
Go down the long aisle, see the rich and the great,
In the pomp and the pride of their worldly estate;
Walk down in your patches and find if you can,
Who opens a pew for a moneyless man,
Walk down in your patches and find if you can,
Who opens a pew for a moneyless man.

3.
Go look to your judges in dark flowing gown,
With the scales where-in law weigheth quietly down,
Where he frowns on the weak and smiles on the strong,
And punishes right while he justifies wrong;
Where jurors their lip on the Bible have laid,
To render a verdict they're already made:
Go there in the courtroom and find if you can,
Any law for the case of a moneyless man,
Go there in the courtroom and find if you can,
Any law for the case of a moneyless man.

4.
Then go to your hovel no raven has fed
The wife who has suffered so long for her bread,
Kneel down by her pallet and kiss the death frost,
From the lips of the angel your poverty lost;
Then turn in your agony upward to God,
And bless while it smites you, the chastening rod;
And you'll find at the end of your life's little span,
There's a welcome above for the moneyless man,
And you'll find at the end of your life's little span,
There's a welcome above for the moneyless man.
