"Nothing Else to Do" (1839)
Comic Song
Sung with unbounded applause by
Miss Rosina Shaw,
The words compiled from an old American Ballad
Arranged by
W. A. Newland.

Philadelphia: OSBOURN'S MUSIC SALOON
Plate No. 173
[Source: 049/047@Levy]

1. The summer being over my flocks were all shorn,
My meadows were cut down and I'd harvested my corn,
To Mary's sweet cottage so neatly in view,
I straight went a courting for I'd nothing else to do,
nothing else to do -- nothing else to do.
I straight went a courting for I'd nothing else to do.

2. 'Twas down in yond' valley together we sat,
And passed away the hours in curious chat,
I told her I lov'd her, I hop'd she lov'd me too,
So we'd love one another for we'd nothing else to do,
nothing else to do -- nothing else to do.
So we'd love one another for we'd nothing else to do.

3. She hung down her head and with blushes replied,
I lov'd you from the first you must make me your bride,
Without hesitation I made her this vow,
I'll marry you my dear for I've nothing else to do,
nothing else to do -- nothing else to do.
I'll marry you my dear for I've nothing else to do.

4. So to the next village away we did roam,
In search of a clergy we found him at home,
I paid him his fee he made one of us two,
And married us straight way for he'd nothing else to do,
nothing else to do -- nothing else to do.
And married us straight way for he'd nothing else to do.

5. We liv'd in felicity in joy and content,
And never knew the sorrows of those that do repent
Our neighbours around us were loyal and true,
And we lov'd one another for we'd nothing else to do,
nothing else to do -- nothing else to do.
And we lov'd one another for we'd nothing else to do.

6. The change which years brought I should tell you in this place,
Our table is too small and our cottage wanting space
We've a healthy rosy laughing set of lads and lasses too,
And we love the little rogues thats caus'd us something else to do,
something else to do, something else to do,
And we love the little rogues thats caus'd us something else to do.



