[_46_
Deposited in U.S. District
Clerk's Office South. Dist. N. York
  July 2 1840
P.S. Recd. 4th March 1841.
  No. 1255.]

"Merry Old Christmas" [2 Jul 1840]
A Popular Song
as Sung with great applause
By
Mr. Leffler,
composed & arranged for the
Piano Forte
and dedicated to his friend
Adam Stodart Esq.
by
Austin Phillips.

Pr.40 Cts.
New York, NY: ATWILL, 204 Broadway
[Source: 1840-380460@LoC]

1. There is an old man whom we all of us know, 
With a merry bald  pate, and a beard white as snow,
He knocks at the door, both of cottage and hall,
And a right hearty welcome, receives at them all,
This old man for ages, has trod o’er the earth;
With the same happy vigour, the same social mirth,
By the aged rever’d, by the youthful ador’d,
And care flies abash’d, when he sits at the board,
Now who is this jolly old fellow, I pray?
Who is this jolly old fellow, I pray?
  Who but old Christmas, 
  Merry old Christmas
Dear to the heart as the sun to the day.

2. Our forefathers hail’d him as we hail him now,
With the ever green leaves round his ever glad brow,
When smok’d the oak benches with good homely fare,
Plum pudding, roast beaf, stout “October” so rare,
He smil’d at the zest which the bold yoeman show’d,
When the trenchers were fill’d, and the foaming brown flow’d,
Then as the cheer rais’d the mirth to a roar,
Old Christmas laugh’d out, till his old sides were sore,
Who was the best friend of our fathers I pray?
Who was the best friend of our fathers I pray?
  Who but Old Christmas!
  Merry Old Christmas!
Dear to the heart as the sun to the day.

3. Good lack! what mad pranks the old joker has seen,
When the girls were entrapp’d ’neath the Missletoe green;
But why should we envy the jolly years fled,
We have eyes quite as bright and ripe lips quite red.
Our country is dear as it ever has been,
Where honour and liberty ever is seen;
Our stout manly hearts every foe can withstand,
And the world still confesses Columbia the land.
Then welcome old Christmas to every heart dear,
Welcome old Christmas to every heart dear,
  Sing to old Christmas!
  Happy old Christmas!
With hearts blythe and warm may he long find us here.
