[From the library of
Joseph P. Webster]
SONGS OF THE
HUTCHINSON FAMILY.

1. Cot where we were born
2. Go call the Doctor, or Anti-Calomel
3. Excelsior
4. Cape Ann
5. Mother's Bible
6. Soldier's Funeral
7. Vesper Song at Sea
8. Vulture of the Alps
9. Axes to gring
10. Were a culling
11. We are happy and free
12. Our Fathers Hearts

"Axes to Grind" [1843]
as Sung by
John W. Hutchinson,
at the Concerts of the
Hutchinson Family.

NEW YORK
Published by FIRTH & HALL, No. 1 Franklin Sq.
  and Firth, Hall & Pond 239, Broadway
[Source: am461001@Mills]

1. Since my musical powers you’re determined to tax,
I’ll sing you a song about grinding an axe;
But though simple my subject, yet listen a minute
And you’ll find there’s a very deep moral within it—
Ri tu di mu ri  tu di nu ri ru di na nu ri nu ri nu di na—

2. A young Country scholar stood musing awhile,
When a journeyman carpenter came up with a smile,
With an axe on his shoulder he wanted to grind.
But he could not tell where a gring stone to find;
Ri tu di nu ri tu di nu ri nu di na nu ri nu ri ni di na

3. He asked simple Hodge if a grind stone he’d got,
Hodege nodded and ran for the watering pot,
Thats right quoth the carpenter now you shall learn,
As your a fine fellow a gridestone to turn.
Ri tu di nu ri tu di nu ri nu di na nu ri nu ri ni di na.

4. Hodge turned till his hands were all blistered and sore,
And he thought that the carpenter, ne’er would give o’er,
But expecting some little reward to obtain,
He kept turning away with might, and with main.
Ri tu di nu ri tu di nu ri nu di na nu ri nu ri ni di na.

5. At last it was sharpened, as sharp as could be,
When the carpenter spoke you young rascal said he,
You’re playing the truant, so get off to school,
Or I’ll dust ye your jacket you idle you fool.
Ri tu di nu ri tu di nu ri nu di na nu ri nu ri ni di na.

6. As we journey through life we very oft find,
A great many people who have axes to grind,
Who will flatter, and coax you, with sweet word and smile,
To do them a good turn, by turning awhile.
Ri tu di nu ri tu di nu ri nu di na nu ri nu ri ni di na.

7. As people begin with their round about ways,
To call you good fellow, deceive you, and praise,
Remember my story, and call to your mind,
That these are the people, who have axes to grind.
Ri tu di nu ri tu di nu ri nu di na nu ri nu ri ni di na.
