"The Haymakers" (1857)
An Operatic Cantata
in Two Parts,
by George Frederick Root, 1820-1895

++++++++++++++++
+ Personations +
++++++++++++++++

Mary (The Farmer's daughter) ..... First Soprano

Anna (The Farmer's daughter) .... Second Soprano

Farmer ................................ Baritone

William (First Assistant) ................ Tenor

John (Second Assistant) ................... Bass

Snipkins (A young man from the city,
unused to rural affairs) .............. Baritone

Dairy Maid [Katy] ................ Mezzo Soprano

Trio of Women's Voices
Chorus of Men's Voices
Quartet and Chorus
Quintet
Semi-chorus of Mowers (Men's Voices)
Semi-chorus of Spreaders (Women's Voices)
Semi-chorus of Mixed Voices
Full Chorus of Haymakers

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
+ Explanations and Directions +
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

[The Appendix referred to below has its text included withing the
main body of this e-text version of the libretto use alphabetic
suffixes for numbering in sequence for reference among their
associated other Numbered entries. Likewise, repeated Numbers,\
indicated within the original score are also so indicated in
brackets "[]" below.]

  The "Haymakers," as the title indicates, is founded upon
scenes and incidents connected with the hayfield, the farmhouse,
and the hay-making season, and may be given with or without
characteristic costume, action, scenery, etc., at the convenience
or pleasure of the performers.
  If sung, book in hand, without costume and action, no special
direction is needed here, excepting, perhaps that the pieces
should be well connected, and the part of Snipkins (which depends
on its success upon appropriate action) should be ommitted. This
part is printed in the Appendix, and may be left out, without
confusing or disconnecting the other parts.
  Should the other plan of performance be adopted, the following
directions and explanations will be of some service.
  A large platform or stage will be required, that the performers
may have found room enough for the necessary action. A part of
the stage should be concealed from the audience, that the singers
may be sometimes out of sight. This may be done by trees and
shrubbery, leaving the open space at the center and front. If
convenient, the gable end of a farm house or other appropriate
scenery may be represented behind the trees.
  The ladies should were straw hats and picturesque of some simple
material. A sort of Swiss costume is pretty, easily made, and
convenient. The gentlemen should also wear straw hats and summer
clothing. Jackets or blouses may be dispensed with while at work.
The farmer and other principal characters may have some appropriate
distinguishing dress.
  Real scythes, rakes, and forks may be found too large and heavy;
imitations are easily made, and will be better.
  The piano-forte or other instruments should not be on the open
stage where the performances take place, but rather behind the
trees at the side, or below the stage in front.
  After a few chords or short overture, the farmer appears and
sings No. 1.
  The singers should keep well _in front_, singing as much as
possible _to the audience_. Throw out the voices clearly and
speak distinctly.
  At the close of No. 1 the performers come on from both sides,
singingn as they come, the chorus No. 2. The different pieces
should be well connected, that the interest may be constantly
kept up. If, for any reason, more interludes are wanted between
verses or pieces, there is no objection to adding them, provided
they are appropriate, and not too long. Let the singers avoid too
much precision and stiffness in their position. It may be best to
move about while singing the choruses, those of the same part
keeping somewhat near to each other.
  Immediately after No. 2, Snipkins appears, and sings his first
Recitative and song [see Appendix]. The person taking this part
may be somewhat dandyfied in his dress, with eye-glass, gold
chains, etc. Be careful that this part is not overdone; let the
manner and action be natural and earnest, but not gross or
clownish.
  In No. 3 Mary and Anna stand a little forward of the others.
The small notes in the accompaniment may be played with the right
hand, and both the other parts with the left.
  While singing No. 4, all remain in one position, the ladies in
front, and the gentlemen behind them and at the sides, all forming
semi-circle--the gentlemen with uncovered heads. Leave the stage
at the close of the chorus.
  William then comes on, accompanied by the mowers, who, while he
sings, make ready for their work by going through the motions of
whetting their scythes, etc., not, however, so as to disturb the
song. Perhaps their movements may be mostly made in the interludes.
In No. 6, the upper part if the accompaniment attempts some
imitation of the singing of the scythe through the grass. If
desirable, a part only of the singers in this chorus may appear,
the others singing out of sight; or this chorus, and No. 8 also,
may be sung in a few voices, perhaps two or three in a part. The
mowers pass to and fro across the stagem imitating the motions of
mowing, giving the stroke at the commencement of each measure, and
arranging their movements so that near the close of the piece they
shall be out of sight, and their voices sound as if they were in
the distance. During this performance the spreaders come on with
their forks, and arrange themselves in groups as if conversing.
  The mowing chorus may be sung two or three times, changing
mowers each time if thought best. It will be well to arrange the
stage so that the mowers can pass behind the trees on one side,
and appear again on the other, diminishing as they pass out of
sight, and increasing as they appear.
  After No. 6 comes Snipkins' second recitative and Fireman's Song
[see Appendix]. It may be convenient to have bells, watchmen's
rattles, and something to imitate the sound of the engine, while
the brakes are in motion, but these should be out of sight. A part
of the chorus should also be out of sight to represent voices in
the distance.
  After No. 7, the spreaders sing their semi-chorus (No. 8),
imitating the spreading of hay; tossing the fork, those who sing
the first, at the first part of the measure, those who sing the
second, at the second part, and those who sing third at either
part, perhaps both. While the singers are in sight the voices are
to sound near; while out of sight the voices should grow softer,
as if more and more distant.
  At the commencement of No. 9 the mowers are out of sight, but
come on as they are singing, both parties passing to and fro
across the platform or stage. Great care and pains will be
necessary to make these choruses distinct, in good time, and
well-balanced.
  At the close of No. 9 both mowers and spreaders are out of
sight, the song appearing to die away in the distance. Either of
these choruses may be repeated, if necessary, to make the
_crescendo_ or _diminuendo_ more gradual.
  No. 10, 11 and 12 need no explanation. Just before each verse of
No. 13, a common tin horn giving the tone G may be blown. The base
may join the tenor in the single part "Come to dinner." After this
chorus, the company seat themselves, and go through the movement
of eating dinner, passing to each baskets, pitchers, bottles,
etc., the instruments playing meanwhile. The company may be seated
on the floor or in rustic benches, or in any other way that will
be natural and appropriate, Many little plans will suggest
themselves that will add to the amusement of this and other
scenes, but care should be taken that they do not degenerate into
that which is rough and coarse. The seats should be well back,
that at No. 14 the quartett may come in front, the chorus
remaining seated during the performance. In this and all pieces
were two choruses or parts sing together, great care should be
taken to keep a good balance. The danger in this piece is that the
chorus will sing too loud, and not accomodate themselves to the
_cres._ and _dim._ of the quartette.
  At No. 15 all start up--the men passing out of sight. No. 8
which comes in here should be performed as before, closing off the
stage. The men come on just before the close of No. 8, and all
commence No. 16 softly, the men in the attitude of listening. As
the spreaders appear during the singing the voices increase.
  During the singing of No. 17 rakes are substituted for the forks
and scythes; and during the singing of No. 18, as many as can be
accomodated on the platform go through the motions of raking hay
during a part of the chorus, keeping time with the music. Perhaps
the rolling up of the winrow may also be imitated. As Mary sings
No. 19, all gather about her, and remain until the last part of
No. 20. The movements in this should be so timed that all will be
off the stage by the time they have finished the piece. Here might
be introduced and instrumental interlude as they are going home,
or they might again repeat "Home, sweet home," in chorus,
diminishing as they disappear.
  The scene is now supposed to be changed to the farm-house. In
No. 21 Katy, the dairy-maid, comes on with her milk-pail, and
sings with appropriate manner her song, passing quickly off as
she closes.
  In parts of No. 22 the singers should imitate the gaping and
nodding of sleepy persons, and at the close of the chorus remain
for a few moments as if asleep, the ladies resting upon each other
in little groups, some of the men in similar positions, others
lying on the ground, where they may remain through the serenades.
At a sudden chord on the instrument, those who are standing wake
up, and move slowly off, yawning, rubbing their eyes, &c. There is
danger of singing No. 22 too softly.
  If convenient, commence diminishing the light about here to
represent the twilight. Imitation of crickets, katy-dids, and
other sounds of the night, may be introduced.
  After two of three minutes, these sounds cease, and William
appears, and sings his serenade. In the dream-song, Mary is
supposed to sing in her sleep. Be careful that the parts balance
well in the duet.
  Soon after William leaves the stage, Snipkins tumbles on as if
falling over something, and sings his recitative and serenade
[see Appendix]. An idea in this is, that the Katy-did contradicts
him, and an imitation of this insect will be better than the voice
for this purpose. One may be made in the following way. Take an
English walnut, and split it in two; clean the half shells, and
stretch over each a piece of parchment. To do this, the parchment
must be wet until it is soft, and then drawn tightly over the
cavity of the shell, and be gathered and tied on the back. Before
this is done, however, make a hole in the middle of each piece of
parchment, and fasten a piece of catgut, about the size of an A
violin string, and 12 or 15 inches long, to each by a knot on each
end of the string. When it is done, there will be two little drums
with a piece of of catgut passing from one to the other. Then cover
a bit of woolen cloth or flannel with pulverized resin, and while
one holds on to the back of one shell, take hold of the other with
one hand, and, drawing it tight, pass the resined cloth quickly to
and fro on the string. Hold the cloth between the thumb and finger.
  Whistles of various sizes, made of quills, will imitate crickets
and other insects of the night, and blown in a tumbler of water
will come in well; this may be repeated two or three times. The
birds also may commence, and sing until No. 23 commences.
  The first three or four "Good Mornings" may be sung before the
singers come on, perhaps by single voices, as if calling to each
other; or may be carried still further by _saying_ good morning,
as if waking up the sleepers. When the singers come on, let them
sing as if bidding each other good morning. If the two parts
singing "Good Morning" are found too difficult, it will produce
a very good effect to have some voices appointed to _say_ good
morning, as if answering each other, while the chorus is going on.
No direction is needed for Nos. 24 and 25, nor indeed for No. 26,
except, perhaps, as this chorus is very short, it may be sung
twice. Be careful the the echo voices are far enough off to make
the echo voices appear natural. The singers may leave the stage
after the chorus, if it does not make too much moving. No. 27
should be sung with spirit and animation. No direction is needed
for Nos. 28, 29, and 30.
  After No. 30 comes Snipkins' recitative and the laughing chorus
[see Appendix]. Snipkins should be on one side near the front, at
first seated, the others falling back as they discover the wasps'
nest. Snipkins runs off towards the last part of his recitative,
and appears again when he says, "Well, laugh then," &c. The section
in this, as in fact in all, as in fact in all, can not be well
described. The singer must imagine himself in the circumstances he
describes, and act as would be natural. Let the repetions of Nos.
8 and 16 be as at first.
  In No. 31, and in other trios and quartettes, other voices than
those indicated may be chosen if desired. No particular direction
is needed for this. At No. 32 the chorus again comes in. This piece
will require some care to make it effective.
  Just before the commencement of the second movement in No. 33 let
one of the men hurry up to the farmer, and call his attention to
the cloud in the west. In No. 34 the raking and pitching may be
imitated. The hay wagon may be _imagined_ to stand just out of
sight, yet so that the pitching can be seen.
  Just at the close of No. 34 Snipkins hurries about singing his
last song, "Will anybody lend," &c. [see Appendix], the others
going on with their work. In No. 35 it will be perceived that John
does not drive the oxen himself, but describes the driving of
another. The room may be darkened a little for No. 36, and
imitation lighting and thunder introduced, if conventient. It may
be well to have a short, appropriate prelude to this chorus.
  In No. 37 the light should brighten, and as William and Anna
sing, "And see! with golden gleaming," all start up, and pointing
to the rainbow, commence No. 38 as soon as the duet ends.
  In No. 39 Mary stands in the center, well in front, those who
sing in semi-chorus forming a semi-circle around her--the others
in groups. As No. 39 closes the farmer steps forward and sings his
little recitative, at which all fall into the semi-circle inclosing
the principle characters.
  A rustic dance may be introduced at the close of No. 40, if
thought best, after which a part of the chorus may be repeated as
a finale.
  If during the performance generally the movements, as here
indicated, should be found tiresome or inconvenient, the singers
may remain stationary. In this case, however, care should be taken
not to assume positions that are too formal; arranging in little
groups is a good plan. The music should be committed to memory,
and no books be used in sight when the cantata is performed in
this way.
  In conclusion, the author hopes the "Haymakers" will be found
useful and pleasant for musical practice, and innocent and
healthful as a means of recreation and enjoyment.

***************************
* INDEX TO THE HAYMAKERS. *
***************************
[NOTE: listed in order of performance including
repeated Numbers as indicated in the score and
those otherwise listed in the Appendix for the
part of Snipkins.]

P A R T   F I R S T.
No.  1.  Recitative ..................... Farmer
No.  2.  Full Chorus ....................
No.  2A. Recitative and Song ............ Snipkins
No.  3.  Duet ........................... Mary and Anna
No.  4.  Full Chorus ....................
No.  5.  Recitative ..................... William
No.  6   Semi-Chorus .................... Mowers
No.  6A. Recitative and Fireman's Song .. Snipkins
No.  7.  Recitative ..................... Anna
No.  8.  Semi-Chorus .................... Spreaders
No.  9.  Semi-Choruses .................. Mowers and Spreaders  
No. 10.  Recitative ........... ......... Mary
No. 11.  Song ................. ......... Mary
No. 12.  Recitative ........... ......... Farmer
No. 13.  Chorus ......................... 
No. 14.  Quartet and Chorus .............
No. 15.  Recitative ..................... Farmer
No.  8.  Semi-Chorus .................... Spreaders
No. 16.  Semi-Choruses .................. 
No. 17.  Recitative ..................... Farmer
No. 18.  Full Chorus .................... 
No. 19.  Recitative ..................... Mary
No. 20.  Trio and Chorus ................  
No. 21.  Song ........................... Dairy Maid
No. 22.  Chorus .........................
INTERLUDE.
No. 22A. {Serenade ...................... William
         {Dream Song .................... Mary
No. 22B. Recitative and Serenade ........ Snipkins

P A R T   S E C O N D.
No. 23.  Full Chorus .................... 
No. 24.  Recitative ..................... Farmer
No. 25.  Song ........................... Farmer
No. 26.  Chorus and Echo ................ 
No. 27.  Trio and Chorus ................ Men's Voices
No. 28.  Recitative ..................... Anna
No. 29.  Song ........................... Anna
No. 30.  Recitative ..................... John
No.  8.  Semi-Chorus .................... Spreaders
No. 16.  Semi-Choruses .................. 
No. 30A. Recitative and Laughing Chorus . Snipkins
No. 31.  Quintet ........................ 
No. 32.  Chorus ......................... Chorus
No. 33.  Song ........................... Farmer
No. 34.  Full Chorus .................... 
No. 34A. Song ........................... Snipkins
No. 35.  Song ........................... John
No. 36.  Full Chorus ....................
No. 37.  Duet ........................... William and Anna
No. 38.  Full Chorus ....................
No. 39.  Solo and Semi-Chorus ........... Mary
No. 40.  Finale. Full Chorus ............ 


==========
PART FIRST
==========

-----
No. 1: Recitative (Farmer)
"Arouse ye, arouse ye"

Arouse ye, arouse ye, men and maidens,
For the day begins to dawn,
Bold chanticleer now hails the morn,
And wakes the echoes far and near.
Already soars the lark aloft,
And sings her morning song.
Shake off dull sloth, and away to the hayfields away!
For today must many an acre of waving grass be laid low.

-----
No. 2: Full Chorus 
"Away to the meadows, away!"

Away to the meadows, away!
Come, come, come,
Away to the meadows, away!
For soon the sun will rise,
O come to the hayfields away,
Haste, O haste,
See the glow of the morn
spreading over the glistening skies.
No sluggards are we,
But willing and free,
Away, away, yes,
And swiftly shall fall
The waving grass tall,
O haste away,
Come away to the meadows, away,
Come, while yet 'tis the dawn of the day,
Away,
Away to the meadows, away!

1.
How cheerful is the farmer's life,
How pure the air he breathes;
Not his the merchant's wearing care,
Nor his the sigh he heaves;
No factory walls confine his limbs,
Nor crowd in heated streets;
But out in nature's glorious home
His healthful toil he greets.

2.
We love to plough, we love to plant,
We love to reap the grain,
For all in turn give health and strength,
And bring us honest gain,
But most of all we love the field,
Where perfumed ordors rise,
As gleaming in the morning sun,
We swing our glittering scythes.

Then away to the fields to the hayfield, away!
Come, O come,
Away to the hayfield, away,
For soon the sun will appear,
Yes, off to the meadows, away!
Haste, O haste,
We'll away, away to the meadows, away!

-------
[No. 2A:] Recitative and Song (Snipkins)
"Heigho! How early the folks get up!"
and "Some folks like the country"

Heigh-o! How early the folks get up!
Why, 'tis scarcely past the middle of the night,
Yet the noisy birds already have begun.
What with heat, and mosquitoes, and
crickets, and bullfrogs, and all sorts of noises
in farmyard and barn, I have hardly had a wink,
a wink of sleep. Heigh-o!

Some folks like the country,
I don't! that's all!
I don't! that's all!

1.
You get up in the morning before it is day;
And from morning to nighfall your work, work away;
Your arms ache, your back aches, you're aching all over,
A cutting away at the grass and the clover.

Some folks like the country,
I don't that's all!
I don't that's all!

2.
The folks in the country, they all laugh at me,
But what 'tis they laugh at, I'm sure I don't see;
They say I am green, 'cause the odds I don't know
'Twixt a plow and a harrow, a rake and a hoe.

Some folks like the country,
I don't that's all!
I don't that's all!

3.
I get hooked by the cows, and get kicked by the mules;
Get stung by the bees, and get chased by the bulls,
Pick nettles for flowers and make hands sore,
And have of afflictions a great many more.

Some folks like the country,
I don't that's all!
I don't that's all!

-----
No. 3: Duet (Mary and Anna)
"Sweet morn, how lovely is thy face"

Sweet morn, how lovely is thy face.
A thousand beauties are on earth and sky,
The joyous birds from topmost branches sing
Their cheerful songs, hark,
Their cheerful songs, hark, hark,
Their cheerful, cheerful songs they sing,
The flowers that dropped in yester's sun
Again lift up their graceful heads,
And ev-ery tree, and ev-ery shrub
is decked with gems of dew,
is decked with gems of pearly dew, of pearly dew.
To Him who all this beauty made,
Whose mercies ev-ery morn are new,
Who thro' the night has kept us safe from harm,
Lift up we first our morning song of praise,
our morning song of praise,
our morning song of praise;
Then to our labor go we forth,
go we forth with cheerful hearts and willing hands.

-----
No. 4: Full Chorus
"To Him who made us"

1.
To Him who made us, and whose power upholds,
Whose bounteous hand our ev-ery want supplies,
Be endless praise, be endless praise;
Whose wondrous love our erring way enfolds,
And night and day with goodness crowns our lives.

2.
To Him whose power the changing seasons bring,
The seedtime, harvest, gentle dew, and rain,
Be endless praise, be endless praise;
For mercies new let our glad voices ring,
And high o'er all exalt and praise His name.

-----
No. 5: Recitative (William)
"Now steady swing your scythes"

Now steady swing your scythes in measured time,
Nor fear upon the smooth and well rolled field
a single stone to meet
With startling crash,
With startling crash and injured blade.
Do well what you do, for a small farm well tilled
is better than a large one slighted.

-----
No. 6: Semi-chorus (Mowers)
"With step firm and steady"

With step firm and steady the measure we keep,
see the grass fall befure us as onward we sweep,
With care follow close cutting smooth as you go,
For when work is well done, then 'tis twice done, you know.
With step firm and steady the measure we keep,
see the grass fall befure us as onward we sweep,


-------
[No. 6A:] Recitative and Fireman's Song (Snipkins)
"Stay! hold on!"

Stay! hold on! I'm all tired out, I'm all tired out.
O! how I'm aching, how I'm aching all over!
If one could only wait, and could rest whene'er he pleased,
it would be a great relief, it would be a great relief;
But there's a man before, and another one behind,
with their scythes so keen and sharp, and it isn't safe to stop.
Warmer work is this than running with the engine to a fire in July.
But that's not work--that's sport.
Rest we a while, and I'll sing you a fireman's song;
Join in the chorus, all, join loud and strong.

The day is done,
The night is come,
And hushed is now the city's hum;
The rumbling wheels their noise has ceased;
The hurrying crowds have gone to rest;
The watchman walks his lonely round;
But save his step, no other sound
Disturbs the still ness of the air,
But hark! that cry so shrill and clear!

Fire! fire! fire! fire!

The watchman now his rattle sings springs,
The well-known cry the fireman hears,
And quickly to the rescue flies,
Away with her, way with her, way with her, boys!

Fire, (Way with her,) fire! (way with her!)
fire, (Way with her,) fire! (way with her!)

Fire, fire, fire, fire!

Spreads o'er the sky the rid glare,
Once more alive the streets appear,
The lumbering engines thunder by,
'Mid shouts of men and woman's cry.

Fire, (Way with her,) fire! (way with her!)
fire, (Way with her,) fire! (way with her!)

Now boys right away with her, away!

Fire, fire, fire, (fire) fire, fire, fire, fire, 
(fire) fire, fire, fire, fire,(fire) fire, fire, fire, fire,
(fire.) fire, fire, fire, fire.

The snakelike hose they now unroll,
The ladder raise against the wall,
And upward, on its tottering rounds,
Through the fire and smoke, the fireman mounts.

Man the brakes, man the brakes, (fire,)
man (fire,) the breaks! (fire, fire, fire.)

Now, down whither boys! give way with might,
We'll have first water on tonight,
With steady hand the hissing stream
Is turned upon the crackling flame.

Fire, (Up with her,) fire, (Down with her,)
fire, (up with her,) fire, (down with her,)
fire, (up with her,) fire, (down with her,)
fire, (up with her,) fire, (down with her,)
fire, (up with her,) fire, (down with her,)
fire, (up with her,) fire, (down with her,)
fire, (up with her,) fire, (down with her,)
fire, (up with her,) fire, (down with her,)

fire, (Now boys put her) fire, (down with all your)
fire. (power.)

But hark! that cry so shrill and wild,
My child! my child! O save my child!
Will he risk his life, the fireman brave,
An unknown stranger's child to save!

The child! the child! O save the child!

Yes, see! He pauses, falters not,
But boldly rushes through the strife;
Bear down, my boys, more water now,
To save your noble comrade's life!

Fire, (Up with her,) fire, (Down with her,)
fire, (up with her,) fire, (down with her,)
fire, (up with her,) fire, (down with her,)
fire, (up with her,) fire, (down with her,)
fire, (up with her,) fire, (down with her,)
fire, (up with her,) fire, (down with her,)
fire, (up with her,) fire, (down with her,)
fire, (up with her,) fire, (down with her,)

fire, (Now boys put her) fire, (down with all your)
fire. (power.)

'Mid falling beams and dangers dire,
Thro' stifling smoke and raging fire,
The gallant fireman staggers on,
He clasps the child, the vic-tory's won!

The child is saved!
The child is saved!
Hurrah, hurrah, hurrah!

Hold on boys, hold, the fire is out,
Our work tonight is bravely done
And homeward now again we turn,
Till our ral-lying cry once more resounds.

Fire's out, fire's out, fire's out,
fire's out, fire's out, fire's out.
Then homeward now again we turn,
Till our ral-lying cry,
our ral-lying cry once more resounds.

-----
No. 7: Recitative (Anna)
"The sun has now drunk up the morning dew"

Th sun has now drunk up the morning dew,
And as he rises gains more power,
With light and graceful fork prepare we now
to spread the fallen grass.
To swing the scythe needs sturdy arms,
To swing the scythe needs muscles tense,
But here may boys of tender years,
And maidens too lend helping hand.

-----
No. 8: Semi-chorus (Spreaders)
"Toss it hither, toss it thither"

Toss it hither, toss it thither,
Neatly spread it to and fro,
Hither, thither, quickly turn it,
Over, under, by and through,
Merry voices gayly ringing,
Ringing over meadow fair.
Sweetly joining distant music
Floating on the fragrant air,
Toss it hither, toss it thither,
Neatly spread it to and fro,
Hither, thither, quickly turn it,
Over, under, by and through.

-----
No. 9: Semi-choruses (Mowers and Spreaders)
"Toss it" and "With step"
[i.e. sing Nos. 6 & 8 together]

------
No. 10: Recitative (Mary)
"Higher and higher mounts the sun"

Higher and higher mounts the sun,
And more intense becomes his ray.

------
No. 11: Song (Mary)
"The birds have sought the forest shade"

1.
The birds have sought the forest shade,
Where cool the soft wind blows,
Where o'er its mossy bed so green
The silver brooklet flows;
The sober cows have left the hill,
To find in meadow stream,
Beneath the drooping trees, a shield
From noontide's sultry beam.
  Come, then companions, seek the shade
  Where cool the soft wind blows,
  Where o'er its mossy bed so fair
  The silver brooklet flows.

2.
Yes, turn we too our weary steps
To yonder oaktree's shade,
Where on the green bank 'neath its boughs
Our simple fare will spread;
The basket's store with water pure,
Will make the meal complete;
We ask no more, for well we know
The laborer's food is sweet.
  Come, then companions, seek the shade
  Where cool the soft wind blows,
  Where o'er its mossy bed so fair
  The silver brooklet flows.

------
No. 12: Recitative (Farmer)
"The hour of noon is here"

Yes! the hour of noon is here,
Come, men and maidens,
Cease all your labor, and gather to the noon's repast,
Lave heated hands and brows in yonder brook;
Then to our simple fare with grateful hearts,
The green-sward forms our table and our couch,
The spreading oak our glorious canopy.

------
No. 13: Chorus
"'Tis the farmer's welcome call"

1.
'Tis the farmer's welcome call,
'Tis the farmer's welcome call,
Ah! ye gentry of the town,
Little know ye as ye frown,
Of the pleasures of the sound,
Come to dinner;
From the basket's ample store,
There is all we want and more
Of the food our hands have won
From the willing soil;
This with water from the spring,
And the appetites we bring,
Give enjoyment only known
To the sons of toil;
Then attend the welcome sound,
  (Come to diner,)
  Come ye, mowers, one and all,
  And ye soreaders, great and small,
  Ev-ery one attend the call,
  Come to dinner.

2.
Yes it is the welcome sound,
Yes it is the welcome sound,
And contentment more than all
Makes it sound a welcome call,
Although in no noble hall,
Call to dinner;
To the brook we'll hasten now,
And refresh each heated brow
In the cool and limpid flow
Of its waters clear;
And with friendly word and smile,
We'll the hour of noon beguile,
Resting from our work the while,
As we gather here;
Then attend the welcome sound,
  (Come to dinner,)
  Come ye, mowers, one and all,
  And ye soreaders, great and small,
  Ev-ery one attend the call,
  Come to dinner.

------
No. 14: Quartet [Mary, Anna, William, John] and Chorus
"Sweet after toil cometh rest"

Sweet after toil cometh rest;
Welcome the hour of repose,
Gently the soft summer breeze
Bringeth perfumes more sweet than the rose.
Come, then, companions, and sing.

We'll sing the hour of rest,
We'll sing of the cheerful noontime hour, as we
Sing of the hour of our rest,
as we rest, as we rest,
We'll sing of the breeze that fans our cheek as we
rest, as we rest, as we rest,
of our rest. (as we rest,)
We will sing of the
water so bright in the crystal spring
as we rest, as we rest,
And of all the joys that our labor bring.
as we rest, as we rest.
But dearer still than these we sing
Of friendship warm and true,
Of hearts that brighten day by day,
As love their hopes renew,
Of friendship, hope, and love, we sing,
Of friendship, love, and hope,
Of friendship, hope, and love,
friendship, hope, and love,
Of friendship, love, and hope, we sing.
 
We'll sing the hour of rest,
We'll sing of the cheerful noontime hour, as we
Sing of the hour of our rest,
as we rest, as we rest,
We'll sing of the breeze that fans our cheek as we
rest, as we rest, as we rest,
of our rest. (as we rest,)
We will sing of the
water so bright in the crystal spring
as we rest, as we rest,
And of all the joys that our labor bring.
as we rest, as we rest.
After toil, after toil cometh rest and repose,
After toil, after toil cometh rest and repose,
After toil cometh rest, cometh rest and repose.
(rest and repose, rest and repose, repose.)

------
No. 15: Recitative (Farmer)
"Refreshed now with vigor new"

Refreshed now with vigor new
Again resume our labors,
Come lads and lassies,
Turn again the half made hay,
Bright are the beams of the midday sun,
And too much drying is not good.

-------------
[Repeat No. 8]

------
No. 16: Semi-choruses (Mowers and Spreaders)
"Toss it hither" and "Hark to the cheerful sound"
[i.e. combine Nos. 8 and 6]

------
No. 17: Recitative (Farmer)
"Prepare we now to close the labors of the day"

Prepare we now to close the labors of the day,
Take your rakes, men and maidens,
Let the weaker go first,
And the stronger follow after,
That they may bear the heavier burden.

------
No. 18: Full Chorus
"Come, follow, while daily we rake up the hay"

Come, follow, while daily we rake up the hay,
Come then, follow, while daily we rake up the hay,
And blithely we'll sing as we keep on our way,
Blithely we'll sing as we keep on our way.

Come, follow, while daily we rake up the hay,
Come then, follow, while daily we rake up the hay,
And blithely we'll sing as we keep on our way,
Blithely we'll sing as we keep on our way.

But neatly, but neatly no straws leave behind,
Gather all as we go, and we'll not lose our time.
But neatly, but neatly no straws leave behind,
Gather all as we go, and we'll not lose our time.

Not roughly, but slower yet,
Hold firmly with steady hand,
That both rows and winnows compactly may together stand.
Not roughly, but slower yet,
Hold firmly with steady hand,
That both rows and winnows compactly may together stand.

Then sing as so gayly we're raking the hay,
For this closes the work of the hayfield today.

------
No. 19: Recitative (Mary)
"In the west the sun declineth"

In the west the sun declineth,
The shadows lengthen on the sward,
Homeward now we turn our thoughts,
And soon our steps.

------
No. 20: Trio [Mary, Anna, Dairy Maid] and Chorus
"When wandering o'er the deep"

When wandering o'er the deep,
The sailor turns him home,
How earnestly he longs,
For that sweet hour to come,
When he shall again shall see
The dearest earthly spot,
Where friends and loved ones true,
He knows forget him not,
Where friends and loved ones true,
He knows forget him not.
Dear home, loved home,
Sweet home.

When worn with care and toil,
The soldier marches on,
How bounds his heart with joy,
If turning to his home,
So we with spirits light,
Our labor being done,
Unite in cheerful song,
As we're returning home,
Unite in cheerful song,
As we're returning home,
Dear home, loved home,
There's no place like home.

------
No. 21: Song (Dairy Maid)
"A dairy maid am I"

1.
A dairy maid am I,
Happy and cheerful
I sing, and never sigh,
As forth to milk I go.
My cows then know my voice,
All turn to greet me,
With looks so wondrous wise,
Or gentle welcome low.
There's Spot and Daisy,
There's Creampot and Katy,
There's Jenny and Bessie,
And sober old Roan,
And there in the corner is Lady and Ruby,
And dear little Beauty who's standing alone.
  Yes, a dairy maid am I,
  Happy and cheerful I sing,
  And never sigh,
  As forth to milk I go.

2.
My heart is light and free
Care I'll not borrow,
There's health and joy for me
In whatsoever I do.
Each flower is my friend,
Shedding in fragrance,
And breeze and sunshine lend
To me their healthful glow.
So Daisy, be quiet,
And off with you Lady,
My pail must be filling,
There's work to be done,
Come, Jennie and Bessie, no please to be steady,
That we may get through ere the set of sun.
  Yes, a dairy maid am I,
  Happy and cheerful I sing,
  And never sigh,
  As forth to milk I go.

------
No. 22: Chorus
"Softly the twilight fades"

1.
Softly the twilight fades,
Slowly the darkening shades
Creep o'er the leafy glades.
As eve-ning's close;
Stars from their ether height
Look down with loving light,
Watching thro' all the night,
While we repose,
  Heigh-ho, Heigh-ho,
  We're getting tired and sleepy;

2.
Hear the sweet lullaby
From all the branches nigh,
See, shines the fairy fly,
Like diamond crest;
Nature to slumber calls,
Heavy each eyelid falls,
Langor perfume fades, enthralls,
Seek we our rest;
  Heigh-ho, Heigh-ho,
  We're very tired and sleepy;

3.
Good night, and pleasant dreams,
Sweet sleep till daylight beams,
Till early morning gleams,
Then we'll away;
Good night, good night to all,
May no dark shadow fall,
And with the early call,
Hail the new day;
  Heigh-ho, Good night,
  We're very, very sleepy;

Good night, Good night,
We're very tired and sleepy,
Good night, Heigh-ho,
We're very, very, sleepy.

=========
Interlude
=========

[No. 22A:] Serenade (William) and Dream-Song (Mary)
"Mary, love, the world reposes"
and "There's none so brave as Willie"

1.
[William]
Mary, love, the world reposes,
Silence reigns o'er all around;
Sleep with gentle arms encloses
Weary man in rest profound;
  Only whippoorwill and I are singing;
  Love, dost hear the sound?

[Mary]
There's none so brave as Willie,
None so strong and true;
There's none such a noble heart,
And Willie loves me too.

2.
[William]
At this hour, so calm and peaceful,
'Tis my rest to think of thee;
Of thy face and form so graceful,
Of thy heart so warm and free;
  Only whippoorwill and I are singing;
  Love, dost think of me?

[Mary]
But when beneath the elmtree's shade,
At summer twilight's hour,
With manly voice he told his love,
Why lost my tongue its power?
Ah! 'tis strange when he is near,
That I can never tell,
But fain would hide him the truth
My fond heart knows so well.

[William]
Still perchance, though sweetly sleeping,
In thy dreams my song may be,
Hov-ering near and fondly keeping
Ev-ery shadow far from thee;
Only whippoorwill and I are singing;
Love, dost dream of me?

[Mary and (William [overlapped])]
There's none so brave as Willie,
None so strong and true;
There's none with such a noble heart,
And Willie loves me too, ah! yes,
But when beneath the elmtree's shade,
At summer twilight's hour, sweet hour,
With manly voice he told his love,
Why lost my tongue its power?
Ah! me! 'tis strange, when he is near,
That I can never tell,
But fain would hide from him the truth
My fond heart knows so well.

(Mary, love, the world reposes,
Silence reigns o'er all around;
Sleep with gentle arm encloses
Weary man in rest profound,
Only whipperwill and I are singing;
Love, dost hear the sound?)

----------
[No. 22B:] Recitative and Serenade (Snipkins)
"My Katy's a girl beyond compare"

Oh! That wheelbarrow's always in my way,
whenever I come out here in the night,
and I'm sure to a get a tumble over
that or something else,
whene'r I venture out here in the night.
How dark! how dark! and lonely all around!
'Tis a shame that the street lamps are not lighted;
I must say that I'm just a little frighted.
But here I'll stay, and sing my serenade
To Katy, sweet Kate, the pretty dairy maid.
Do, mi, sol.

1.
My Katy's a girl beyond compare,
There is none like her anywhere,
And I her lover true would be,
Sweet Katy never loved anybody but me.
(Katy did, Katy did, Katy did.) Katy didn't.
(Katy did, Katy did, Katy did.) Katy didn't,
I know she didn't.

Now who is that, I'd like to know,
who's contradicting me? 
He'd better stop.

2.
When all the others laughed at me,
And called me green as green could be,
Now tell me Katy, tell me true,
You did not laugh at me, did you?
(Katy did, Katy did, Katy did.) Katy didn't.
(Katy did, Katy did, Katy did.) Katy didn't,
I know she didn't.

If you don't stop, I'll call in the police,
I won't be treated so.

3.
And when I kneeled down at your feet,
And told you how I loved you, Kate,
Your face behind your apron hid,
You did not laugh at me, now did
(Katy did, Katy did, Katy did.) Katy didn't.
(Katy did, Katy did, Katy did.) Katy didn't,
I know she didn't.

O, I know where you are--in that tree you're hid away.
Well, stay, if you wish to--
I shall retire.

(Katy did, Katy did, Katy did.) Katy didn't.
(Katy did, Katy did, Katy did.) Katy didn't,
I know she didn't.

===========
PART SECOND
===========

No. 23: Full Chorus
"Good morning!"

Good morning [etc.]
'Tis a bright summer morn and our harvest day,
With the first ruddy beam, away! away!
Every creature around us seems to say, 
Good morning! Good morning!

How pure, how sweet the earth, the air, the sky,
How darts from out the east light,
How mount its rays on high,
From sleep we rise with life, and strength, and joy;
And quaff from bonteous nature's cup,
A draught without alloy,
How pure, how sweet the earth, the air, the sky,
How darts from out the east light,
How mount its rays on high,
From sleep we rise with life, and strength, and joy;
And quaff from bonteous nature's cup,
A draught without alloy.

'Tis a bright summer morn and our harvest day,
With the first ruddy beam away! away!
Every creature around us seems to say,
Good morning, good morning,
'Tis the merry, merry, merry, merry, morning,
'Tis the merry, merry, merry, merry, morning,
With the first golden ray
Ev-ery creature seems to say,
We're going on our way,
Merry morning!

------
No. 24: Recitative (Farmer)
"How pleasant are those cheerful words"

How pleasant are those cheerful words,
Happiness comes not from wealth, 
Happiness comes not from station,
But from contentment calm and true, calm and true.
He who walks cheerfully on the path of duty,
Doing with his might what his hands find to do,
Loving God and his fellow man,
He, he alone has the right to be happy.

------
No. 25: Song (Farmer)
"Blithely go we forth; 'tis our harvest day"

Blithely go we forth, 'tis our harvest day,
Everything around us is bright and gay;
From the waving tree-tops, hear the merry song,
Floating through the valley, the tones prolong;

Hear the distant murmur of the the woodland so fair;
Welcome is its music on the bright morning air;
Mingle then our voices, as we go on our way,
With the cheerful sound, 'tis our harvest day,
With the cheerful sound, 'tis our harvest day.

------
No. 26: Chorus and Echo
"Light hearted are we, and free from care"

1.
Light hearted are we, and free from care,
As forth to the fields we go;
While singing, laughing, shouting,
While singing, laughing, shouting,
The echoing hills are sounding,
As merrily forth we go.

2.
Yes, merrily forth, a happy band,
We go to the meadow fair,
The joyful birds are singing,
The joyful birds are singing,
And hill and valley ringing,
As merrily forht we go.

Yo ho! (yo ho!)
Yo ho! (yo ho!)
Yo ho! (yo ho!)
Yo ho! (yo ho!)

Sweet echoes from the hills are sounding,
As merrily forth we go.

Yo ho! (yo ho!)
Yo ho! (yo ho!)
Yo ho! (yo ho!)
Yo ho! Yo ho!
Yo ho! Yo ho!
Yo ho!
(Yo ho! Yo ho!
Yo ho! Yo ho!
Yo ho!)

------
No. 27: Chorus (Men's Voices)
"How like some tented camp"

How like some tented camp the distant field appears!
All glorious in the morning light, 
Tho' wet with dewy tears,
How flies the heavy mist like smoke of battle's strife,
As brightening all the sky the sun is bursting into life,

Like the sword's bright flash,
And the saber's clash
And the rolling, rolling drum,
Are the glancing light,
Of the scythes so bright,
And the wood-bird's whirring hum.

Like the sword's bright flash,
And the saber's clash
And the rolling, rolling drum,
Are the glancing light,
Of the scythes so bright,
And the wood-bird's whirring hum.

How like some tented camp the distant field appears!
All glorious in the morning light, 
Tho' wet with dewy tears,
How flies the heavy mist like smoke of battle's strife,
As brightening all the sky the sun is bursting into life,

------
No. 28: Recitative (Anna)
"Joy, joy, it is not the tented field"

Joy, joy, it is not the tented field,
It is not the rolling drum,
It is not the saber's flash,
Nor the cannon's roar.
The only tents are of fragrant hay.
The only sentinels the hopping, hopping robins,
who at our approach have flown away.

------
No. 29: Song (Anna)
"Scenes of happiness, I love ye"

Scenes of happiness, I love ye,
Dearer by far than the gay world's smiles,
Every object fair
Bringeth joy that no sorrow beguiles.
Home, dear home, so lovely,
With a full heart turning to thee,
I cling in my love like a vine
To the objects so dear to me
Yes! scenes of happiness, I love ye,
Deep in my heart shall your mem'ry dwell,
When I wander far from friends and thee,
When I must say to all farewell,
When I must say to all farewell.

------
No. 30: Recitative (John)
"The dew now is off"

The dew now is off, and again spred we the hay,
That the sun's bright beams may finish their work.

---------------
[Repeat No. 8.]

----------------
[Repeat No. 16.]


---------
[No. 30A:] Recitative (Snipkins) and Laughing Chorus
"No, not yet!" and "Wasps! Wasps!"

No, not yet! Let's rest a little longer,
See the yellow flies buzzing, buzzing round.
(Wasps!) See, they come! see, they come! see, they come!
(Wasps! Wasps!) Take 'em off, take 'em off,
they are stinging, they are biting,
they are stinging, they are biting,;
Take 'em off, take 'em off, take 'em off, take 'em off.

We are sorry, but we can't help laughing,
ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha,
ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha,
ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha,
ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha!
We are sorry, but we can't help laughing,
We are sorry, but we can't help laughing, 
ha, ha, ha!

Well, laugh then, laugh if you can!
But I can't laugh; no, I can't laugh.
Ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, 
ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, 
ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha,
ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, 
We are sorry, but we can't help laughing,
ha, ha, ha, ha,
ha, ha, [etc.]
ha.

------
No. 31: Quintette [Mary, Anna, William, Farmer, John]
"How good is He, the Giver,"

How good is He, the Giver,
Whose mercies fail us never,
Whose bounty large is ever,
Loving and free, and free.
From Him the bright sun shineth,
And soft at eve declineth,
Bringing the night.

His power the seasons changeth,
Summer and Winter, Auntumn and Spring,
And each His praise proclaimeth,
Ever the bountiful Lord and King.

For every thing He careth,
His notice nothing spareth;
Not e'en the sparrow falleth,
Without His kind regard,
And here His love hath brought us,
His goodness here hath taught us,
That we with one accord,
May praise, may praise the Lord.

How good is He, the Giver,
Whose mercies fail us never,
Whose bounty large is ever,
Loving and free, and free.

Yet learn we a lesson from the falling grass:
In the morning it flourisheth and groweth up,
In the evening it is cut down, and withereth.
So in a day our life may be ended;
When that time shall come, may we be gathered
into the garner of the Most High.
Praise the Lord.

------
No. 32: Chorus
"How sultry is the day"

How sultry is the day, no breath stirs the leaves,
The heavens are as brass, and man and beast are like to faint;
Sings aloud the locust, who alone rejoices.
Parched are the fields,
And the broad corn-leaves are curling.
The air is glowing as from a heated furnace;
The panting cattle loll their dripping tongues;
It seems as though the earth is burning up'

All panting,
All panting,
On man and beast the fearful heat is pressing,

All panting,
All panting,
On man and beast the fearful heat is pressing,

All panting,
All panting,
On man and beast the fearful heat is pressing,

------
No. 33: Song (Farmer)
"How hushed and still"

How hushed and still we are all the quivering airs!
How deep, profound, the silence nature wears,
With dread she seems oppressed, and waiting stands,
As if in hope some mighty power would burst the heated bands;
What power can give the parched earth life again?
How hushed and still the meadows, field and plain!

But see! in the west a cloud appears,
Higher and higher mounts its crest,
rises is brilliant crest;
See! see! it spreads its ample fold,
Look! look! its deepening fringe of gold;
Ha! behold the lightnings play,
the vivid lightnings play.
Spare not yout muscles now, good lads,
But quick to the work,
And rest not until within the barn
Our spoil be safely housed,
till our spoil be safely housed.

------
No. 34: Chorus
"A shower! a shower!"

Yes! to the work! to the work! a shower! a shower!
Hurry, hurry, etc.

Come, follow while quickly we rake up the hay
The cloud rises fast, let us make no delay;
Hurry, hurry, etc.

'Tis spreading and rising, come make no delay
Faster! yet faster! come, rake up the hay;
Hurry, hurry, etc.

The cloud rises fast, 'tis spreading and rising,
Roll it faster! for the black cloud is here.
Hurry, hurry, etc.

On the wagon, on the wagon quickly load it away,
Pitch it faster, faster, faster, for the rain will not stay
Pile it higher, higher, higher, so we'll not lose the day,
Hurrah! hurrah! We shall not lose the day.
(Now, now comes the wind,)
Now the wind comes, hurry, hurry, hurry,
now the wind comes, hurry, hurry, hurry,
Now the wind comes, hurry,
We shall not lose the day,
We shall not lose the day,
We shall not lose the day.

----------
[No. 34A:] Song (Snipkins)
"Will anybody lend me an umbrella?"

1.
Will anybody lend me an umbrella?
Say! it's going to rain, as sure as shootin',
It will pour down in less than a giffin,
There are no doorsteps to run under,
No awnings either here for shelter,
  Will anybody lend me an umbrella?
  Say, will anybody lend me an umbrella?

2.
Will anybody lend me an umbrella?
Say! A place beneath a tree I'd take,
If I didn't think the tree would leak,;
It's coming pretty soon I tell ye,
I wish I'd brought my own umbrella.
  Will anybody lend me an umbrella?
  Say! Will anybody lend me an umbrella?

3.
Will anybody lend me an umbrella?
Say! just as soon as the rain is thro',
I will return it straight to you;
Yes, just as soon as the rain is through
I will return it straight to you.
  Will anybody lend me an umbrella?
  Say! Will anybody lend me an umbrella?

------
No. 35: (John)
"Now creaks the heavy wagon"

Now creaks the heavy wagon with its towering load,
While to his oxen the driver calls,
Up, Buck, come, Bright,
Now do your best,
Up, Buck, haw, Bright, come here.
Now do your best, brave beasts,
Put forth, put forth your strength,
to save save from harm your winter's food.
Gee up! gee up! g'a-lang!
Do your best, do your best, brave beasts;
Open wide, open wide the doors.
Now for a mighty pull!
Haw, Buck! Haw, Bright!
Come here! Who ho! Who ho!
All safe, all safe, now stand at ease,
While the coming storm is roaring,
Our fragrant spoil is safely housed
From the tempest rain outpouring,
And now, if all our friends
as well succeed the shelter gaining,
With joy we'll sing our harvest song,
and care not for the raining.

------
No. 36: Full Chorus
"Shrouded is the sun"

Shrouded is the sun, and black the heavens as night.

How fearful and how grand
The distant thunders roar;
Its awful voice proclaims
The Maker's wondrous power.

But see! see! the rushing wind
sways back and forth the stately trees,

The wind rushing, howling,
wind rushing, howling wind,
rushing, howling wind.

But see! see! the rushing wind
sways back and forth the stately trees,

[QUARTET (Mary, Anna, William, John)]
Yet fear not we,
Yet fear not we,
He, whom the winds obeyed,
Is master of the storm.

[CHORUS]
Now bursts with overwhelming crash the thunder's roar,
the mighty thunder's roar,
Earth trembles in affright,
Earth trembles in affright,
Earth trembles in affright.

[QUARTET]
Yet fear not we,
Yet fear not we.

[CHORUS]
The rain, the rain it cometh now,
The rain, the rain, (The rain, the rain, it cometh now,)
The rain, the rain, (The rain, the rain, it cometh now,)
in torrents pouring down,
The rain, the rain it cometh now with mighty
rush in torrents pouring down,
in torrents pouring down,
The rain, the rain it cometh now with mighty
rush in torrents pouring down,
in torrents pouring down.

[QUARTET]
Yet fear not we,
Yet fear now we,
the tempest but obeys His will.

[CHORUS]
Again the thunder's crash, and yonder mighty oak is
riven in twain as t'were a reed,
as t'were a quiv'ring reed, at t'were a quiv'ring reed.
How fearful is the storm!
How fearful is the storm!
How fearful, fearful is the storm!

[QUARTET and CHORUS]
Yet fear not we,
Yet fear not we,
He whom the winds obeyed
is master of the storm.

------
No. 37: Duet (William and Anna)
"Lo! the clouds are breaking"

Lo! the clouds are breaking,
The storm its power hath spent;
Nature smiles, awaking
With joy for mercies sent,
With joy for merscies sent.
But hear the thunder's muffled pealing,
Where far away the storm appears,
Behold, in ra-diant beauty smiling,
Looks the blue sky e'en thro' tears,
yes, in ra-diant beauty smiling,
Looks the blue sky e'en thro' tears,
Lo! the heavens are breaking,
The storm its power hath spent;
And see! with golden gleaming
The bow, the bow of promise sent.

------
No. 38: Full Chorus
"Rainbow! Rainbow!"

Rainbow! Rainbow!
Hail, hail to thee,
In brightness and beauty arrayed,
(in beauty, glorious, glorious)
Rainbow! Rainbow!
Welcome to thee.
Thou bright arch of gladsome promise made.
(O welcome, welcome, welcome,)
Welcome, bow of promise,
Welcome, arch of beauty,
Welcome, bow of promise,
Welcome, arch of beauty,
Joyfully we hail thee,
Joyfully we hail thee,
Seal of promised mercy,
Glorious in they brightness,
Seal of promised mercy,
Glorious in they brightness,
Welcome, every welcome,
Glorious arch of beauty,
Welcome, every welcome,
Glorious arch of beauty,

Joyfully, joyfully,
Joyful we hail thee,
bright arch of heaven.

Joyfully, joyfully,
Joyful we hail thee,
bright arch of heaven.

Rainbow! Rainbow!
Hail, hail to thee,
In brightness and beauty arrayed,
(in beauty, glorious, glorious)
Rainbow! Rainbow!
Welcome to thee.
Thou bright arch of gladsome promise made.
Hail! hail! hail!

No. 39: Solo (Mary) and Semi-chorus
"All nature now rejoices"

1
All nature now rejoices,
With thousand happy voices,
O'er all her beauteous verdure
New freshness reigns again,

2.
On valley, hill and mountain,
On woodland, grove and fountain,
The beauteous light is resting,
Where poured the summer rain.

The robin sings his song,
From the treetop waving high,
With boisterous mirth it floats,
In the  golden lighted sky.
It merrily floats,
It merrily floats,
It floats.
(It merrily, merrily, merrily, merrily floats.)

All nature now rejoices,
With thousand happy voices,
O'er all her beauteous verdure
New freshness reigns again:
The little brook runs loudly laughing,
Laughing down the hill,
And louder, louder swells the song,
as joins each sparkling rill:
They laugh, (ha ha ha ha ha,)
laugh
(ha ha ha ha ha)
laugh
(laugh while they leap)
While leaping down the hill,
While leaping down the hill,
While leaping down the hill:

The laugh while leaping down the hill,
while leaping down the hill.
The laugh while leaping down the hill,
while leaping down the hill.

All nature now rejoices,
All nature now rejoices.

How pure the mellow light,
How fresh and cool the air,
While floating in beauty the golden clouds appear,
On gentle breezes borne,
The balmy odors come,
While gladly we join in our merry harvest home.

[Farmer]
With grateful hearts sing we now our harvest home.

------
No. 40: Finale. Full Chorus.
"Harvest home"

Harvest home, harvest home,

Harvest home, harvest home,
Now in vain has been our labor,
Harvest home, harvest home,
Joyful, joyful sing,

Harvest home, harvest home,
Now in vain has been our labor,
Harvest home, harvest home,
Joyful, joyful sing,

Joy, (Harvest home, harvest home)
Filled our barns with fragrant hay,
Joy, (Harvest home, harvest home)
Let the song and dance go round,
Harvest home, harvest home,
Plenty smiles upon our labors,
Harvest home, harvest home,
Joyful. joyful sing.

Thanks be to Him who has given us the increase.

Then loud let the shout, let the shout go up,
Harvest home, O harvest home,
Thanks be to Him who has given us the increase.
Harvest home, O harvest home,
loud let the shout, let the shout go up,
Harvest home, harvest home,
Yes loud let the shout, let the shout go up,
Harvest home, havest home,
Joyful, joyful sing our harvest labor's done,
we'll joyful sing, our harvest labor's done.
Now let the song and the dance go round,
Harvest home, harvest home,
Now let the song and the dance go round,
Harvest home, harvest home,
Joyful, joyful sing our harvest labor's done,
our harvest labor's done.
Then joyful sing, our harvest labor's done,
our harvest labor's done,
Harvest home, harvest home, harvest home.

