from "Prairie Flowers", No. 1 of 12
"Oh! That I Were a Man of Wealth" (1857)
Poetry by Edwin Burgess
Music by Joseph Philbrick Webster, 1819-1875

Pulbisher: Higgins Brothers, 84 Randolph St., Chicago, IL
Engraver: Pearson
[Source: 100009755@LoC/IHAS-CWM; and @HSM/LoC]

1.
Oh! that I were a man of wealth to visit with the swells;
In winter take the ladies out in cutters deck'd with bells,
In summer in my carriage ride and flaunt it with the gals,
Then brag of all the fun I'd had in secret with my palls.

CHORUS (A)
Talk not of health and moral wealth and never dying fame,
'Tis but the shade of happiness, the echo of a name,

CHORUS (B) [sung after each CHORUS (A)]
For the glory which the millions crave
In every age and clime,
Is but to live on others toil and bow at mammon's shrine.

2.
Oh! that I were a man of wealth to purchase cheap renown,
Think then, with how much consequence, I'd strut about the town,
I'd visit the mechanic shops where poor men daily toil,
I'd ride to see the farmer's men, who, sweating, till the soil.

CHORUS (A)
I'd reap the fruits, ye toiling brutes, of every needy slave,
For I would be a man of wealth and not a scheming knave.

3.
I'll be well dressed, live on the best, but never soil my hand,
I'll own, but not to cultivate, a vase amount of land;
Gallant a bit, and be a wit, to all the married ladies,
Get introduced to their young friends, by praising up their babies;

CHORUS (A)
I'll do the thing genteely up, talk nonsence soft and fine,
Like a larking, sparking man of wealth, a beau of modern time.

4.
When older grown, I'd settle down, and wed for love or pelf,
For age well creep upon us all, just like a theif by stealth;
So then I'd talk philosophy, and politics quite fine,
Elected to a Senator and lyonize my time:

CHORUS (A)
With govenor, or president, each day I'd take my wine,
And brag of what I'd done in youth, when I am past my prime.

5.
I'd parties give where'er I live, to all the rich and great,
To get my daughters married off, each to a good estate;
Sustain the aristocracy of title, wealth and fame,
While people are wealth worshipers, dishonest, proud and vain;

CHORUS (A)
I'd own the wealth I never earned of every age and clime,
And live and die a man of wealth, a beau of modern time.
