"How fondly I think
of our last tender meeting" (1865)
Song & Chorus
Words by
[Mrs.] E[lizabeth]. B. Dewing [Kaup].
Music by
J[oseph]. P[hilbrick]. Webster. [1819-1875]

Chicago, IL: Lyon & Healy, cor. Clark & Washington Sts.
[Source: am4022@Mills]

1. I sit at my window this bright summer morning,
My heart the while beating with sorrowing swell,
And tremblingly list to the cannon’s deep warning,
Whose echoes resound through the far away dell;
  This concourse of people—
  Each joythrobbing steeple—
Gay music and banners— the glad tidings tell.

CHORUS 1
  The heart of a people,
  Throbs joy from each steeple,
And holiday banners, the glad tidings tell.

2. A Nation triumphant o’er traitors, rejoices
That thriceblessed peace now restores her brave men,
And mingles its songs with those patriot voices
Which shouted for Freedom thro’ each Southern glen:
  Eager footsteps fall lightly
  Eyes lovelit beam brightly;—
Soft hands clasp the bronze hands of loved ones again.

CHORUS 2
  Eager footsteps fall lightly—
  Eyes lovelit beam brightly—
Soft hands clasp the bronzed hands of loved ones again.

3. In that battleworn line note the now vacant places;
The Union is saved— the Republic is free;
But missed the fair forms and the well beloved faces
Of many who left us to “march to the sea”;
  Thus sorrow and gladness—
  Joy mingling with sadness—
I miss the one dearer than all else to me.

CHORUS 3
  Thus sorrow and gladness—
  Joy mingling with sadness—
I miss the one dearer than all else to me.

4. How fondly I think of our last tender meeting—
He laughed and talked lightly of “wounding and scars”,
So I tried to be brave and think only of greeting
My laurel wreathed boy when he came from the wars;
  Even then something told me
  ’Twas the last time he’d hold me
In loving embrace ’neath the vanishing stars.

CHORUS 4
  Even then something told me
  ’Twas th’last time he’d hold me
In loving embrace ’neath the vanishing stars.

5. I join in the welcom to soldiers returning,
And thank God for crowning with vict’ry the Right;
But cannot suppress in my heart a sad yearning
For one whom I loved— who was lost in the fight;
  Still the sun shines above me—
  And up there He will love me—
Though gone from my pathway thro’ life all its light.

CHORUS 5
  Still the sun shines above me—
  Up there He will love me—
Though gone from my pathway through life all its light.
