"Northmen Awake" (22 April 1868)
Quartette & Chorus
Words by Sanford Fillmore Bennett
Music by Joseph Philbrick Webster, 1819-1875

1.
Northmen awake to the danger impending
Northmen awake! Northmen awake!
Sleep not while Liberty needeth defending
Northmen awake! Northmen awake!
Say, what foretokens yon cloud in the sky?
Say, has the hurricane quite passed us by?
Lurks there the serpent where deep shadows lie
Rouse ere it sting, and thy liberties die!

CHORUS
Strike, till the last armed foe expires!
Strike, for your altars and your fires!
Strike, for the green graves of your sires!
God and your native land!

2.
Wake cries the blood of our patriot martyrs
Northmen awake! Northmen awake
Blood that was shed upon Liberty's altars
Northmen awake! Northmen awake!
Can it be true that its shedding was vain?
Can you consent to its flowing again?
Kindle each brave loyal heart into flame!
Patriots be in the deed as in name!

(CHORUS)

3.
Bright shone your stars through the smoke of the battle
Glorious stars! Glorious stars!
Paled not their gleam 'mid the dread cannon's rattle
Glorious stars! Glorious stars!
Stilled are true hearts that had loved them for aye
Nerveless the arms that for them fought the way
Yours be the glory to bear them today!
Crush out the traitors that battle their sway!

(CHORUS)

4.
Proud is the name that from heroes descended
Northmen awake! Northmen awake!
Dear is the land that their courage defended
Northmen awake! Northmen awake!
Shall not the plotting of traitors be vain
From you to grapple your birthright again?
Stand by the ship e'en through carnage and flame!
Hearts that are true even death cannot tame!

(CHORUS)

5.
Washington, Liberty's Father entreateth
Northmen awake! Northmen awake!
Lincoln, her Savior, the summons repeateth
Northmen awake! Northmen awake!
Yours is a trust that is solemn and grand
Ever to see that her battlements stand!
March to the battle with Liberty's band!
Strike out the sword from fell treason's red hand!

(CHORUS)

Source:
Sheet Music from the Alfred Whital Stern Collection of Lincolniana
http://memory.loc.gov/ammem/scsmhtml/scsmhome.html

Digital ID: scsm0196