"New Star Spangled Banner" (1861)
Words by Edna Dean Proctor
Music by Joseph Philbrick Webster, 1819-1875

Chicago, IL:  H. M. Higgins, 117 Randolph St.
[Source: 000/008@Levy]

1. 
Oh, Star Spangled Ban-ner! the Flag of our pride! 
Tho' trampled by traitors and basely defied, 
Fling out to the glad winds your Red, White and Blue, 
For the heart of the Northland is beating for you! 
And her strong arm is nerving to strike with a will 
'Till the foe and his boastings are humbled and still! 
Here's welcome to wounding and combat and scars 
And the glory of death­­ for the Stripes and the Stars!

CHORUS [sung after each verse]
And her strong arm is serv-ing to strike with a will 
Till the foe and his boast-ings are humb- led and still! 
Here's welcome to wounding and combat and scars 
And the glory of death­­ for the Stripes and the Stars!

2.
From Prairie, O plowman! speed boldly a-way­­ 
There's seed to be sown in God's furrows today­­ 
Row landward, lone fisher! stout woodman, come home! 
Let smith beat his anvil and weaver his loom, 
And hamlet and city ring loud with the cry, 
"For God and our country we'll fight till we die!"
Here's welcome to wounding and combat and scars 
And the glory of death­­ for the Stripes and the Stars!

3.
Invincible Banner! the Flag of the Free! 
O where treads the foot that would falter for thee? 
And the hand to be folded till triumph is won 
And the Eagle looks proud, as of old, to the sun? 
Give tears for the parting­­ a murmur of prayer­­ 
Then Forward! the flame of our standard to share! 
With welcome to wounding and combat and scars 
And the glory of death­­ for the Stripes and the Stars!

4.
O God of our Fathers! this Ban-ner must shine 
Where battle is hottest, in war-fare di-vine! 
The cannon has thundered, the bugle has blown,­­ 
We fear not the summons­­ we fight not alone! 
O lead us, till wide from the Gulf to the Sea 
The land shall be sacred to Freedom and Thee! 
With love, for oppression; with blessing, for scars­­ 
One Country­­ one Banner­­ the Stripes and the Stars!
