41. Home Enjoyments are not crowned, where Home Music is no found.
No. 41. Grosvenor College Albums.
Wickins' Drawing-Room Operas
with or without stage accessories for amateur performance.
Wallace's Popular Opera
MARITANA [1845]]
ACT II
No. 8. Trio ... "Turn on, old Time" ... Ten., Bar.& Contralto
from pages 15-17

Act II.
SCENE II.
_Interior of a Prison._

(Prison Scene again, showing Don Ceasar who has awakend 
from slumber and is now joined with Don Jose.)

NARRATOR.  Don Caesar now awakes, enquiring of Lazarillo 
how long he has to live, but appearing resigned to his 
fate, he joins with Lazarillo and Don Jose in singing 
the Trio "Turn on, old Time." (Curtain rises.)

"Trio: _Turn on, old Time._" (1845)
Words by Alfred Bunn, Esq.
Music by William Vincent Wallace, 1812-1865
Abridged & Arranged by Florence Wickins (1899)

London, W: Wickins & Co., 41 New Bond Street
[Source: vn3578959@NLA]

[SOLO, Don Caesar (Tenor)]
Turn on, cold Time thine hour-glass, 
the sand of life, of life why stay? 
Turn on, old Time thine hourglass, 
the sand of life, of life why stay? 
Quick let the gold-grain’d moments pass. 
’Tis they all debts, all debts must pay, 
quick let the gold-grain’d moments pass. 
’Tis they all debts, all debts must pay. 

[SOLO, Lazarillo (Contralto)]
Stay, fleeting Time, thine hourglass, 
the tide of life, of life, oh stay! 
Nor let his golden moments pass, 
like worthless sand, like worthless sand. 
Stay fleeting Time, thine hourglass, 
The tide of life, of life, oh stay! 
Nor let the golden moments pass 
like worthless sand, like sand away. 
For him, oh! be there many years, 
Apart, apart from ev ’ry woe. 
Nor let his golden moments pass, 
like worthless sand, like sand away. 

[TRIO: with overlapping voices]

[Lazarillo]
For him, oh! be there many years 
Apart, apart from ev’ry woe, 
the blue serene which heaven wears 
when waves scarce ebb, scarce ebb and flow, 
when waves scarce ebb and flow, 
when waves scarce ebb and flow, 
scarce ebb and flow, 
scarce ebb and flow. 

[Don Caesar]
Of what avail are grief and tears, 
are grief and tears, since life must go? 
Quick let the gold-grain’d moments pass, 
’tis they all debts, all debts must pay! 
Of what avail are grief and tears, 
since life, since life which came must go, 
and brief the longest tide of years 
as waves that ebb, that ebb and flow 
as waves that ebb and flow, 
as waves that ebb and flow. 

[Don Jose (Baritone)]
Despite, old Time, thine hourglass, 
turn, quickly as it may. 
His  sand of life not yet shall pass, 
If he my wish, my wish obey, 
Of life there are full happy years 
if well, the die, the die we throw 
For Mayday smiles and autumn tears 
are waves that ebb, that ebb and flow, 
are waves that ebb and flow, 
as waves that ebb and flow, 
that ebb and flow, that ebb and flow.
