To Major D. W. Whittle, Chigago, IL
"Hold the Fort!" (1870)
Song and Chorus
Words and Music
by Philip Paul Bliss, 1838-1876

-----------
Major Whittle relates the following incident, upon which
the song is founded:

  During October, 1864, just before General Sherman commenced
his famous march to the sea, while his army lay camped in the
neighborhood of Atlanta, the army of Hood, in a carefully
prepared moment, passed the right flank of Sherman's army, and
gaining his rear, commenced the destruction of the railroad
leading north, burning block houses and capturing the small
garrisons along the line. Sherman's army was put in rapid
motion, following Hood, to save the supplies and larger posts,
the principle of which was located at Altoona Pass, a defile
in the Altoona range of mountains, through which ran the
railroad. General Corse, of Illinois, was stationed here with
a Brigade of troops, composed of Minnesota and Illinois
regiments, in all about 1,500 men; Col. Tourtelotte being
Second in Command. A million and a half of rations were stored
here and it was highly important that the earthworks commanding
the Pass and protecting the supplies be held. Six thousand men,
under command of Gen. French, were detailed by Hood to take the
position. The works were completely surrounded and summoned to
surrender. Corse refused, and sharp fighting commenced. The
defenders were slowly driven into a small fort on the crest of
the hill. Many had fallen, and the result seemed to render a
prolongation of the fight hopeless. At this moment an officer
caught the sight of a white signal flag, far away across the
valley, fifteen miles distant, upon the top of Keneshaw
Mountain. The signal was answered, and soon the message was
waved across from mountain to mountain: "Hold the fort; I am
coming. W. T. Sherman." Cheers went up; every man was nerved
to the full appreciation of the position; and, under a
murderous fire, which killed or wounded more than half the
men of the fort--Corse himself being shot three times through
the head, Col. Tourtelotte taking command, though himself
badly wounded, they held the fort for three hours, until the
advance guard of Sherman's army came up, and French was obliged
to retreat.
  No incident of the war illustrates more thrillingly the
inspiration imparted by the knowledge of the presence of the
Commander; and that he is cognizant of our position; and that,
doing out utmost, he will supplant our weekness by speedy
reinforcements. So, the message of Sherman to the soldiers of
Altoona becomes the message of the Great Commander, who signals
ever to all who fight life's battle, "Hold the Fort."
-------------
1.
Ho! my comrades, see the signal
Waving in the sky!
Reinforcements now appearing,
Victory is nigh!

CHORUS
"Hold the fort, I am coming,"
Jesus signals still,
Wave the answer back to heaven,--
"By thy grace, we will."

2.
See the mighty host advancing,
Satan leading on;
Mighty men around us falling,
Courage almost gone:

(CHORUS)

3.
See the glorious banner waving,
  Hear the bugle blow;
In our Leader's name we'll triumph
  Over every foe.

(CHORUS)

4.
Fierce and long the battle rages,
  But our Help is near;
Onward comes our Gread Commander,
  Cheer, my comrades, cheer!

(CHORUS)


