"I Am Going There, 
or the
Death of Little Eva" (1852) 
Written and inscribed to the readers of 
"Uncle Tom's Cabin" 
[by Harriet Beecher Stowe 1811-1896]
by John Stowell Adams (18??-1893) 
Adapted to a favorite Melody.

Boston: Oliver Ditson, 85 Washington St.
New York: Gould & Berry
Cleveland: S. Brainard & Co.
New Orleans: H. D. Hewitt
Louisville: G. W. Brainard & Co.
Boston: C. C. Clapp & Co. 
Bufford's Lith. Boston.
Plate No. 5088. 
[Source: Detroit Public Library,
The Hackley Collection;
Digital ID: dpl-hac-00065.dc 
OCLC Record ID: 17698624]

  "Uncle Tom," said Eva, "I am going there."
  "Where, Miss Eva?"
  The child rose and pointed her little hand to the sky;
the glow of evening lit her golder hair and flush'd her cheek
wiith a kind of unearthly radiance, and her eyes were bent
earnestly on the skies.

1. “I am going there, I am going there,” 
She said in a voice so gently sweet, 
That Uncle Tom smooth’d her golden hair, 
And mused like a child at  Eva’s feet. 

2. Then he thought that her hands had thinner grown, 
Her skin more clear, her breath more short, 
That he, poor Tom, would be left alone 
With the lessons fair Eva to him had taught.

3. And weaker she grew as the months flew past.
And calling her father she sweetly said:—
“O father, my strength it is failing fast,
Do let me speak ere it all hath fled!”

4. Then she spake to her friends— “forever love
All that is holy, and good, and fair;”
And to Uncle Tom— “we shall meet above—
Above— with the holy angels there.”

5. “Sweet Eva, my darling,“ the father said,
“Do you know me dear Eva, say, oh say!“
Then the child sprang up from its dying bed,
But fell again, for its strength gave way.

6. In a breathless silence her friends came round;
While her large clear eyes so fix’d and fair,
Look’d up to heaven— and a whispering sound
Said gently and sweetly— “I’m going there.”

7. A glorious smile o’er her features played,
Seldom seen in a changing world like this,
Then the gentlest of earth— sweet Eva strayed
Forth to a world of endless bliss.

8. Good bye to thee Eva, the tomb hath not
A treasure more dear in its close embrace.
Good bye, but thou never shalt be forgot,
Thy mem’ry in many a heart hath place.
