"Alice Clair" [Dec 8, 1853]
a Ballad
Words by
J. M. Fletcher
Composed by
L. Heath

"The Green Willows Wave O'er the Lost Alice Clair
"The Night Dews Distil on Her Grave,
"And Whip-Poor-Wills Plaint on the Slumbering Air,
"Is as Sad as the Moan of the Wave.

(Composer of the "Grave of Bonoparte," "Snow Storm" &c.
By the same Author & Composer, the "Old Homestead")

New York, NY: HORACE WATERS, 333 Broadway
Boston: GEO. P. REED & CO.
Phila.: LEE & WALKER.
Cincinnati: W. C. PETERS & SONS.
[277.
Deposited Clerk's Office So. Dist. N. Y., Dec. 8, 1853]
[Source: 1853-541140@LoC]

1. The green willows wave o’er the lost Alice Clair.
The night dews distil on her grave;
And the whippoorwill’s plaint on the slumbering Air
Is as sad as the moan of the wave
And the scenes are now dark where here smile was the light
That banish’d each soul clouding care;
And a tear dims the eye when they whisper good night
To all save the lost Alice Clair
And a tear dims the eye when they whisper good night
To all save the lost Alice Clair.

CHORUS [sung after each VERSE]
And a tear dims the eye when they whisper good night,
To all save the lost Alice Clair.

2. The circle is broken when relatives meet.
They whisper her name with a sigh,
And pray for a union more lasting and sweet
Beyond the blue dome of the sky.
Her chair is still plac’d in the hearth’s cheerful light,
But Alice no longer is there
And a tear dims the eye when they whisper good night
To all save the lost Alice Clair.
And a tear dims the eye when they whisper good night
To all save the lost Alice Clair.

3. She’s gone to her rest where the green willows wave,
In the vale where the violets grow
Where the summer winds sigh as they sweep o’er her grave
As if mourning for Alice below.
And the old home is dark, once so cheerful and light,
For death has been revelling there!
And a tear dims the eye when they whisper good night
To all save the lost Alice Clair.
And a tear dims the eye when they whisper good night
To all save the lost Alice Clair.
