Christy's
"The Other Side of Jordan" (1853)
As Sung by Earl H. Pierce
at Christy's American Opera House
472 Broadway, New York
Words by Edwin P. Christye
Music by Daniel Decatur Emmett ?

1.
Of all the banjo songs that have been sung of late,
  There is none that is now so often call'd out --
As the one I sing myself and apply to the times!
  It's call'd On the other side of Jordan.

CHORUS
I take off my coat and I roll up my sleeves,
  Hard road to travel over Jordan;
Throw off my coat as you may perceive,
  O Jordan is a hard road to travel I believe.

2.
Around the Chrystal Palace, there's a great many shows,
  Where all of the green ones are drawn in;
There's snakes and alligators, mammoth mules and big potatoes
  That were raised upon the other side of Jordan.

(CHORUS)

3.
The "Sovereign of the Seas," she went to Liverpool
  In less than fourteen days too, accordin';
Johnny Bull, he wiped his eyes, and looked with surprise,
  At this clipper from the Yankee side of Jordan.

(CHORUS)

4.
The ladies of England, have sent a big address,
  About Slavery and all the horrors, accordin',
They had better look at home, their own _White Slaves_,
  That are starving on the English side of Jordan.

(CHORUS)

5.
The Duchess of Sutherland, she keeps the "Stafford House,"
  The place where the "Black Swan" is boarding,
At a musical party, they asked her for a song,
  And she gave them--on the other side of Jordan.

(CHORUS)

6.
They have got a "Bearded Lady," down at Barnum's show,
  And lots of pictures outside, accordin',
She's going to take her eye-lashes for a pair of moustaches,
  For to travel on the other side of Jordan.

(CHORUS)

7.
There's the case of "Kosta," that has made so much talk,
  The Austrians, they tried for to maul him,
But Capt. Ingraham said, if they didn't let him go,
  He'd blow them on the other side of Jordan.

(CHORUS)

8.
Our great father Washington, he was a mighty man,
  And all the Yankees do their fighting, accordin',
They will raise the flag of Freedom, wherever they can,
  Till they plant it, on the other side of Jordan.

(CHORUS)

9.
And all the world must know, wherever we may go,
  Our Government will be ready in affordin',
Protection alike to all, both the great and the small,
  That bail from the Yankee side of Jordan.

(CHORUS)

