Favorite Melodies
of the
Cambell Minstrels

Few Days ... Kunkle
Molly Bawn ... Lover
A Dollar or Two ... Mellville
Shells of Ocean ... Cherry
Oh Home My Loved Home
We Met by Chance ... Ku[:]cken
Lost Flower ... Beckel
Bobbin' Round ... Beckel
Isabella Fay ... Melville
Golden Days of Childhood

"A Dollar or Two" (1855)
[Words and Music by]
Melville

St. Louis
Published by J. Ballhouse, 52 Fourth St.
Philada.: Lee & Walker
N. Orleans: P. P. Werlein
Boston: O. Ditson
[Lithographer:] E. McCarthy
[Engraved by;] Beckel
[Source: 177/017@Levy]

1. With cautious step as we tred our way
  through this intricate world just as other folks do.
May we, still on our journey be able to view,
  the benevolent face of a dollar or two
For an excellent thing is a dollar or two
  No friend sticks so close as a dollar or two,
Thro’ country or town, as we pass up and down,
  No pasport so good, as a dollar or two.
A dollar or two. A dollar or two.
  Has a magical power, to help a man thro!
For the Pagan and Christian the Gentile and Jew.
  In rev’rence all bow to a dollar or two.

CHORUS [sung after each VERSE]
Be sure and take care of your money my boys,
  Be sure and take care of your money,
For your Friends you will find, will be distant and few,
  If you ever get short of a dollar or two.

2.  Would you rid yourself out of the bachelors crew
  and the hand of a beautiful lady persue
You must always be ready the han some to do
  And altho it may cost you a dollar or two,
Lov’s arrows are tip’t with a dollar or two
  And its nectar is sip’t for a dollar or two.
The best aid you can get In pleasing your pet
  Is the eloquent chink of a dollar or two
A dollar or two, A dollar or two
  Ther’s nothing so useful to help a man thro’
in sorrws or joys with the girls or the boys
  we acknoledge no good but a dollar or two.

3. Would you, wish your existence with faith to embue,
  And enroll in the ranks of the sanctified few,
To enjoy a good name, and a wel cushion’d pew,
  You must freely come down with a dollar or two.
For the Gospel is preach’d, for a dollar or two,
  And Salvation is reach’d by a dollar or two,
You may trespass sometimes But the worst of all crimes,
  Is to find yourself short of a dollar or two
A dollar or two, A dollar or two,
  ’Tis for this that we darkies are singing to you,
  And when to your City, we bid an adieu,
We’re in hopes to be blest with a dollar, or two.
