"Root, Hog, or Die" (1856)
Words and Music: anonymous
As sung by Ordway's Aeolians

1.
I'm right from old Virginny wid my pocket full ob news
I'm worth twenty shillings right square in my shoes
It doesnt make a dif of bitternance to neider you nor I
Big pig or little pig Root, hog, or die.

CHORUS
I'm chief cook and bottlewasher, cap'n ob de waiters;
I stand upon my head,
When I peel de Apple dumplins.

2.
I'se happiest darkee on de top ob de earth
I get fat as possom in de time ob de dearth
Like a pig in a tate patch dar let me be
Way down in old Virginny whar its Root, hog, or die.

(CHORUS)

3.
De Boston dandies dey look so very grand
Old clothes hand me down gloves upon de hand
High heel boots boots moustaches round de eye -
A perfect sick family ob Root, hog, or die.

(CHORUS)

4.
De Boston gals dey de beat dem all
Dey wear high heel shoes for to make demself's tall
If dey dont hab dem de Lor how dey'l cry
De boys hab got to get dem or else Root, hog, or die.

(CHORUS)

5.
De Shanghie coats dey're getting all de go
Whar de boys get dem I realy dont know
But dey're bound to get dem if dey dont hang too high
Or else dey make de Taiors run Root, hog or die.

(CHORUS)

---------------
ANOTHER VERSION
Adapted to the same music.

1.
I'll tell you of a story that happened long ago;
When the English came to America, I s'pose you all know,
They couldn't whip the Yankees, I'll tell you the reason why,
Uncle Sam made them sing, Root hog or die.

2.
John Bull went to Boston, as you shall plainly see,
Forty large ships, loaded clear up with tea,
The Yankees wouldn't pay the tea tax, I'll tell the reason why,
The Yankee boys made 'em sing, Root hog or die.

3.
They first met our armies on the top of Bunker hill,
When it came to fighting, I guess they got their fill,
The Yankee boys chased them off, I'll tell you the reason why,
The Yankee boys made 'em sing, Root hog or die.

4.
Then they met our Washington at Yorktown,
There the Yankees mowed 'em down like grass from the ground,
Old Cornwallis gave up his sword, I'll tell you the reason why,
General Washington made 'em sing, Root hog or die.

5.
Then they came to Baltimore forty years ago,
They tried to take North Point, but found it wouldn't go,
The Baltimoreans chased them off, I'll tell you the reason why,
The Yankee boys made 'em sing, Root hog or die.

6.
Then they marched their armies down to New Orleans,
That was the place, I think, that Jackson gave 'em beans,
They couldn't take our Cotton bales, I'll tell the reason why,
General Jackson made 'em sing, Root hog or die.

7.
Now Johnny Bull has been kicking up a fuss,
He'd better keep quiet, or he'll surely make it worse,
We're bound to have Cuba, I'll tell you the reason why,
For Uncle Sam will make 'em sing, Root hog or die.
