"Jessie's Dream, or the Relief of Lucknow" (1858)
A Patriotic Song.
Words by Mrs. Weir.
Composed and Dedicated by Special permission to His Excellency
Sir. Edmund Walker Head K.C.B.
Governor General of Canada and British North America
by
Thomas Crawford,
The Scottish Vocalist.

Boston: Russell & Richardson, 291 Washington St.
Toronto C. W.: A. & S. Nordheimer
Kingston C. W: A. W. Murdoch
J.H. Bufford's Lith.
Engraver: E. Goeckeritz
Plate Number: 3162
[Source: 014/029@Levy]
[Note: the Seige of Lucknow occured
in 1857, as part of the Indian Mutiny
of 1857-1858]
[NOTE: special thanks to the Levy staff
for sending me a hi-res photocopy of the
complete score! (recieved 1 Feb 2008)]

1. She sleeps at length the weary watcher sleeps.
And dreams not of death’s horrors round her spread, 
She hears no more the cannon’s thunder ing voice, 
When slept she all serenely with the dead.

2. Yes pillow kindly Jessie’s drooping head, 
She dreams not Lucknow’s walls enclose her now, 
She roams beside her Highland Home once more, 
And greets her father coming from the plough.

3. But, hark! what breaks the stillness?
’Tis a wild and piercing scream!
Do you hear it? do you hear it?
Oh it is no idle dream!
We’re saved! we’re saved! they’re coming!
Their approach is hope’s bright star,
’Tis the Slogan of the Highlanders
I hear it from afar.

4. Yes, hark! it is, it is that sound!
The Pibroch’s thrilling blast,
The Campbell comes, Macgregor comes.
The hour of terror’s passed.
Those loud and threatening notes proclaim,
That vengance deep is there,
While softer tones of Hope and Joy
Come floating on the air.

5. And ringing from a thousand lips,
A peal of joy resounds
While murmured prayers and burstling sobs
Are mingled with their sounds.
And never such a sight was seen, 
On India’s soil before, 
A thousand Christians kneel as one 
And while they kneel adore.

Oh! never breathe that British arms 
Or British hearts can fail, 
Our Havelocks, our Campbells live, 
While Lucknow tells its tale: 
Angel of battles lead them still, 
The Hero’s cause is thine, 
And still the notes “God save the Queen” 
Be blent wi “Auld lang Syne.”

