"Annabel Lee" (1859)
Poem by Edgar Allan Poe, 1801-1849
Music by E. F. Falconnet

Boston, MA: Oliver Ditson & Co., 277 Washington St.
[Source: a7128@Duke]

It was many a many a year ago in the Kingdom of the sea,
that a maiden there lived whom you may know by he name of Annabel Lee.
And this maiden she liv'd with no other thought
than to love and be lov'd by me,
that to love and be lov'd by me,
that to love and be lov'd by me.

She was a child and I was a child in the kingdom of the sea; 
She was a child and I was a child in the kingdom of the sea.
But we lov'd with a love that more than love, I and my Annabel Lee.
But we lov'd with a love that more than love, I and my Annabel Lee.

With a love that the winged seraphs of heaven conveted Her and me.
With a love that the winged seraphs of heaven conveted Her and me.

And this was the reason as all men know
In the kingdom of the sea,
That a wind blew out of a cloud, of a cloud
Chilling my beautiful Annabel Lee.

So that her high born kinsman came, and bore her away
And bore her away from me;

To shut her up in a sepulchre
In the kingdom of the sea.

So that her high born kinsman came, and bore her away
And bore her away from me;

To shut her up in a sepulchre
In the kingdom of the sea.

The angels not half so happy in heav'n
Went envying her and me;
went envying her and me
Went envying her and me.
Yes that was the reason as all men know
In the kingdom of the sea.

That the wind came out of a cloud by night
Chilling and killing my Annabel Lee,
Chilling and killing my Annabel Lee.

But our love it was stronger by far,
Than the love of those that were older than we
of many far wiser than we.

And mother the angels in heaven above
Nor the demons far under the sea,
Can ever dissever my soul from the soul
of the beautiful Annabel Lee.
Can ever dissever my soul from the soul,
Of the beautiful Annabel Lee.

For the moon never beams without bringing me dreams
of the beautiful, beautiful Annabel Lee;
And the stars never rise, but I see the bright eyes
Of the beautiful beautiful Annabel Lee;
And so all the night-tide I lie down by the side
of my darling my life and my bride;
In the sepulchre then by the sea;
In the tomb by the sounding sea.
