Songs
of the
Florences.
as sung by
Mrs. W. J. Florence,
throughout the various theatres in Europe and America.

The Captain.    Way Down in Maine.
Emma Jane.     Johnny Was a Shoemaker.

"The Captain" [1859]
Written by W. J. Florence.
Arranged by T. Comer.

Boston, MA: OLIVER DITSON & CO., 277 Washington St.
Boston: J. C. HAYNES & CO.
Philad.: J. E. GOULD.
New York: FIRTH, POND & Co.
Cinn.: JOHN CHURCH.
[Source: 1859-050/015@Levy]

1. As rhey marched thro’ the town, with their banners so gay,
I ran to the window to hear the band play;
I peeped thro’ the blinds very cautiously then,
Lest the neighbors should say I was looking at the men.
Oh! I heard the drums beat, and the music so sweet,
But my eyes at the time caught a much greater treat;
The Troop was the finest I ever did see,
And the Captain with his whiskers took a sly glance at me.

2. When we met at the Ball I of course thought ’twas right
To pretend that we never had met before that night,
But he knew me at once I perceived by his glance,
And I hung down my head when he asked me to dance.
Oh! he sat by my side at the end of the sett,
And the sweet words he spoke I shall never forget;
For my heart was enlisted and could not get free,
As the Captain with his whiskers took a sly glance at me.

3. But he marched from the town, and I see him no more,
Yet I think of him oft and the whiskers he wore,
I dream all the night, and I talk all the day
Of the love of a Captain who went far away.
I remember with superabundant delight
When we met in the street, and we danced all the night,
And keep in my mind, how my heart jumped with glee,
As the Captain with his whiskers took a sly glance at me.

4. But there’s hope— for a friend just ten minutes ago
Said the Captain’s returned from the war, and I know
He’ll be searching for me with considerable zest,
And when I am found— but— ah— you know all the rest.
Perhaps he is here— let me look round the house;
Keep still, every one of you, still as a mouse;
For if the dear creature is here, he will be
With his whiskers ataking sly glances at me.
