Dedicated to the
United States of America
by the Author & Composer
"God and Our Union [1860]
The
Anthem of Freedom.
Written by Louis Dela, Esqr:
Music by L[eopol]d. Meignen, Doct: of Music.

Philadelphia, PA: Beck & Lawton, S. E. Cor. 7th & Chestnus St.,
  Successors to J. E. GOULD.
Boston, MA: OLIVER DITSON & Co.
N. York, NY: S. T. GORDON
Wheeling: H. CARTWRIGHT
Cincinnati, OH: JOHN CHURCH.
Schnabel & Finkeldey Lith., 218 Walnut Street, Philadelphia.
[M 1640
  .M]
[LIBRARY OF CO. & ESS,
MUSIC DEPARTMENT.
Accession No. 24293
Class Civil War
Case No. B.M.L.
Stock Nio. Vocal, Piano
[Source: civilwardiigital.com]

1. Land of our fathers, redeem’d from subjection,
Honor’d Republic, enlighten’d and free!
We, with the harmonies burn of affection,
Joyfully chant our devotion to thee,
Strong in thy Northern and Southern dominions,
Eastern and Western, in Union allied!
Wise in thy Councils’ united opinions!
Safely we make thee our hope and our pride;
  Wise in thy Councils’ united opinions!
  Safely we make thee our hope and our pride,

CHORUS 1-5.
Grateful and loyal, our anthem shall be,
“God and our Union! the Hope for the Free!
God and our Union! the Hope of the Free!”

2. Dear are thy sisters im social comunion
Sovereign States, by no tryants oppress’d
Thirteen, the eldest, and first in the Union,
Live in our memories dearest and best.
Washington brave, as their leader, array’d them,
Firm in their duty, oppressors to fight;
God was their Guide; in His justice He made them
Strong and triumphant in strife for the right;
  God was their Guide; in His justice He made them
  Strong and triumphant in strife for the right.

3. Freedom was won by those sisters united;
Brightly their stars on thy banner shall glow!
Stripes on its folds, by those stars shall be lighted
Symbols of stripes which shall vanquish thy foe!
Washington dwells with the angels whose voices
Counsel thy freemen secession to shun;
Sainted in glory, his spirit rejoices,
Seeing thy millopns united as one—
Sainted in glory, his spirit rejoices,
Seeing thy millions united as one.

4. Dear are thy relics which keep in remembrance
Times of our Fathers, the “days of lang syne;”
Dear is the “Hall,” which thy blest “Independence”
Ever makes sacred, as Liberty’s shrine.
Dearest of all is thy wise Constitution!
Hallow’d the rights by that instrument giv’n!
Plotters of treason as just retribution
Merit thy wrath, and the vengeance of Heav’n!

5. Strength’ning the ties of their holy relation,
Oh! may thy States through the ages of time,
Blest by Jehovah, progress as a nation,
Great in its goodness, in Freedom, sublime!
Then shall thy sons, ’neath thy starlighted banner,
One in their purpose, a brotherhood be,
Chanting the anthem of Freedom:
“Hosanna! God and our Union the Hope of the Free!”
Chanting the anthem of Freedom: 
“Hosanna! God and our Union! the Hope of the Free!”
