"New edition".
"Jessie's Dream, 
A Story of the Relief of the Lucknow" (1860)

Dinna ye hear It? Dinna ye hear It?
It's the slogan of the highlanders:
We'er saved! We're saved!

Written by 
Grace Cambell
Composed by
John Blockley, 1800-1882

Melbourne, Australia: Robert Mackie, 32 Swanston Street
Music and General Printer: Clarson, Shallard, & Co., 
80 Bourke Stree East, Melbourne
[NOTE: about the Siege of Lucknow (India)]
[Source: http://nla.gov.au/nla.mus-an6340852]

The following is an extract from a letter written by M. de 
Banneroi, a French physician in the service of Mussur Rajah, 
and published in Le Pays (Paris paper), dated Calcutta, 
October 8th, 1857. "I give you the following account of the 
relief of Lucknow, as described by a lady, one of the rescued 
party:- 'On every side death stared us in the fave; no human 
skill could avert any longer.  We saw the moment approach 
when we must bid farewell to earth, yet without feeling that
unutterable horror which must have been experienced by the 
unhappy victims of Cawnpore.  We were resolved rather to die 
than to yield, and were fully persuaded that in twenty-four 
hours all would be over.  The engineers had said so, and all 
knew the worst.  We women strove to encourage each other, and 
to perform the light duties which had been assigned to us,- 
such as conveying orders to the batteries, and supplying the 
men with provisions, especially cups of coffee, which we 
prepared day and night.  I had gone out to try and make myself 
useful, in company with Jessie Brown, the wife of a corporal 
in my husband's regiment.  Poor Jessie had been in a state of 
restless excitement all through the siege, and had fallen away 
visibly within the last few days.  A constant fever consumed
her, and her mind wondered occasionally,- especially that day, 
when the recollections of home seemed powerfully present to 
her.  At last, overcome with fatigue, she lay down on the ground,
wrapped up in her plaid.  I sat beside her, promising to awaken 
her when, as she said, "her father should return from the 
ploughing."  She fell at length into a profound slumber,- 
motionless, and, apparently, breathless; her head resting in 
my lap.  I myself could no longer resist the inclination to 
sleep, in spite of the continual roar of the cannon.  
Suddenly I was aroused by a wild unearthly scream close to my 
ear; my companion stood upright before me, her arms raised, 
and her head bent forward in the attitude of listening.  A 
look of intense delight broke over her countenance, she 
grasped my hand, drew me towards her, and exclaimed, "Dinna ye 
hear it? dinna ye hear it? Ay, I'm no dreaming', it's the 
slogan of the highlanders!  We're saved, we're saved!"  Then, 
flinging herself on her knees, she thanked God with passionate 
fervour.  I felt utterly bewildered; my English ears heard 
only the roar of artillery, and I thought my poor Jessie was 
raving; but she darted to the batteries, and I heard her cry 
incessantly to the men, "Courage! courage! hark to the slogan-
to the Macgregors, the grandest o' them a'!  Here's help at 
last!"  To describe the effect of these words upon the 
soldiers would be impossible.  For a moment they ceased 
firing, and every soul listened in intense anxiety.  
Gradually, however, there arose a murmur of bitter 
disappointment, and the wailing of the women who had flocked 
to the spot burst out anew as the Colonel shook his head. Our 
dull lowland ears heard nothing but the rattle of musketry.  
A few more moments of this death-like suspense, of this 
agonizing hope, and Jessie, who had again sunk on the ground, 
sprang to her feet and cried, in a voice so clear and piercing 
that it was heard along the whole front line,- "Will ye no 
believe it now?  The slogan has ceased indeed, but the 
Cambells are comin'!  D' ye hear, d' ye hear?" At that moment 
we seemed to indeed to hear the voice of God in the distance, 
when the pibroch of the highlanders brought us tidings of 
deliverance, for now there was no longer any doubt of the fact.
No, it was indeed the blast of the Scottish bagpipes, now 
shrill and harsh, as threatening vengeance on the foe,- then 
in softer tones seeming to promise succour to their friends in 
need.  To our cheer of "God save the Queen," they replied by 
the well known strain that moves every Scot to tears,
"Should auld acquaintance be forgot," &c.

1. Far awa' to bonnie Scotland 
Has my spirit ta'en its flight, 
An' I saw my Mither spinnin' 
In our highland hame at night; 
I saw the kye a browsing, 
My Father at the plough, 
And the grand auld hills aboon them a': 
Wad I could see them now! 
Oh! leddy, while upon your knees 
Ye held my sleepin' head, 
I saw the little kirk at hame, 
When Tam an' I were wed; 
I heard the tune the pipers play'd, 
I kenn'd its rise an' fa'; 
'Twas the wild Macgregor's slogan- 
'Tis the grandest o' them a'! 

2. Hark! surely I'm no wildly dreamin', 
For I hear it plainly now;- 
Ye cannot, ye never heard it 
On the far off mountain's brow; 
For in your southern childhood 
Ye were nourished saft and warm; 
Nor watch'd upon the cauld hill side 
The risin' o' the storm. 
Aye! now the soldiers hear it, 
An' answer with a cheer, 
As "The Cambells are a comin'" 
Falls on each anxious ear. 
The cannons roar their thunder, 
An' the sappers work in vain, 
For high aboon the din o' war 
Resounds the welcome strain. 

3. An' nearer still, an' nearer still, 
An' now again 'tis "Auld lang syne;" 
Its kindly notes like lifebluid rin, 
Rin through this puir sad heart o' mine; 
Oh! leddy dinna swoon awa! 
Look up! the evil's past! 
They're comin' now to dee wi' us, 
Or save us at the last. 
Then let us humbly, thankfully, 
Down on our knees and pray, 
For those who come thro' bluid and fire, 
To rescue us this day, 
That He may o'er them spread his shield, 
Stretch forth his arm an' save 
Bold Havelock an' his highlanders, 
The bravest o' the brave!
