"To the Boy Defender of
Kentucky's Honor," (1860)
Capt. William F. Gaines.
Words by
Henry T. Stanton Esq.
Music by
Edward O. Eaton.
Author of Eoline Schotticsh, Anita Polka, &c.

Vicksburg, MS: Blackmar & Brother
New Orleans, LA: A. E. Blackmar & Bro.
Lith. of Endicott & Co., 50 Beekman St., NY
[Engraver:] Clayton.
[Source: 086/013a@Levy]

  At the Battle of Buena Vista, Sergeant Will F. Gaines, then
a boy of sixteen years of age, greatly distinguished himself;
twice rescueing from the Mexicans, the Colors of the Second
Regiment Kentucky Infantry.  For his gallant conduct the
Legistlature presented the young hero with a magnificant
Sword, and unanimously passed the following resolution:
  Resolved, That we tender the thanks and gratitude of the
people of Kentucky to Sergeant William F. Gains, the Boy
Defender of the glorious Banner of Kentucky, in the sanguinary
Battle of Buena Vista.

1. He left the green hills ’neath his native sun gleaming,
  He bade friends and kindred a soldier’s adieu,
While the Starspangled Banner above him was streaming,
  And ev’ry lov’d being was swept from his view;
On his high, noble brow, no shadow was sleeping,
  Nor for friends, nor for kindred a tear was he weeping,
In thought of his country, alone his heart sleeping,
  As nobly to fight in her battles he flew!
  As nobly to fight in her battles he flew!

2. Aye, nobly he bore the bright emblem above him,
  And vow’d in his spirit to shield it or dies;
With honor to guide him, and woman to love him,
  He rush’d with his silken flag, streaming on high!
He rush’d with it onward where cannon’s deep knelling,
  And musketry’s rattle, their thousands were felling,
Where the tide of destruction in crimson was swelling,
  And  wildly the deathshout of comrades came be.
  And  wildly the deathshout of comrades came be.

3. Unsheath’d was his sword, and his banner still streaming,
  Where foemen their numbers pour’d down on the plain,
Where wildly the WarGod, in redblood was gloating,
  And ev’ry green spot had its darkcloted stain;
Oh! then where the maddest of battle was raging,
  And soldiers with wildness the combat was waging,
Oh! then his bright steel with the foe was engaging,
  And hotly they press’d him to yield, but in vain.
  And hotly they press’d him to yield but in vain.

4. When twice in the struggle his comrades were bending,
  And foemen rush’d mad on the Flag of the West,
Then, then, the proud boy the fair gift was defending,
  And death with his stroke sunk deep in each breast;
Again the bright banner untainted was waving,
  Again the young heart the dark foeman was braving,
And ere the mad contest had ceas’d its wild raving,
  The Boy had twice shielded the Flag of the West.
  The Boy had twice shielded the Flag of the West.

5. That night, when his comrades lay wounded and sleeping,
  Pale, weary, and worn by the battle’s ride fray;
He stood, while his flag in the night breeze was leaping,
  And guarded its glory, with pride till the day;
And then the lov’d banner, his heart was enfolding,
  And honor, each moment his spirit was moulding,
As silent he stood, in the midnight beholding
  The Ladies’ fair tribute, with breezes at play.
  The Ladies’ fair tribute, with breezes at play.

6. As back to the home of his childhood in gladness,
  He treads the green hills, with a manly step now,
The friends that he left in mourning and sadness,
  With tears of delight greet the hero, I trow.
Kentucky, his State, wraps her praises around him;
  Her sons in their tributes of honor hove bound him;
Her daughters with smiles of approval have crown’d him,
  And left their green wreath, for aye on his brow.
  And left their green wreath, for aye on his brow.
