"Crowding Awfully" (4 Jun 1866)
A Temperance Song & Chorus
As Sung by the Hutchinsons
Composed by Benjamin Russell Hanby, 1833-1867

Chicago: Root & Cady, 67 Washington St.
Plate No. 615.5
[Source: 051/028@Levy]

This song may be sung in character to great advantage either by
a boy or an adult, pointing in turn to his boot, his shoe, 
producing his once fat pocketbook &c. The chorus whether a 
quartette or a larger number, should sit on the stage just 
behind him. One of their number should have a paper 
representing the Pledge, all should remain seated while singing
the chorus, until the last one when the solo singer on reaching
the line “you may pass” &c. should turn round, take the pledge 
from the one who is holding it, and leading off on the chorus, 
should advance to the front of the stage waving it above his 
head. The last chorus should be sung standing, all rising 
quickly and singing with great spirit.

1. These Temp’rance folks do crowd us awfully, 
Crowd us awfully, 
Crowd us awully. 
Temp’rance folks do crowd us awfully 
You needn’t think I care. 
I’m not the man to lose my liberty,
Lose my liberty, 
Lose my liberty. 
Not the man to lose my liberty 
I ha’nt a bit to spare. 
I’d like to know what’s all this fuss about. 
Is something smashing through! 
They hold their meetings round eternally. 
I wonder what they’ll do!

CHORUS [sung after each verse]
Then forward boys hurrah! 
We’ll join the glorious fray. 
We’ll hoist our flag and on to victory. 
The Right shall gain the day!

2. They stick the pledge these blue teetotalers,
Blue teetotalers,
Blue teetotalers.
Stick the pledge, these blue teetotalers
Beneath each ruby nose.
They talk of woe and want and povertty,
Want and poverty,
Want and poverty.
Talk of want and  woe and poverty
There’s truth in that I s’pose.
My coat I know is rather seedy
And my pants are tatter’d too.
My right foot goes but poorly booted
And the left one wears a shoe!

3. I wish these chaps would cease to pity me,
Cease to pity me,
Cease to pity me.
Wish these chaps would cease to pity me
I’m not yet quite bereft.
Though come to search my once fat pocketbook,
Once fat pocketbook,
Once fat pocketbook.
Come to search my once fat pocketbook.
There’s nary sixpence left.
There’s a wife down town would smile like Venus
If I’d sign the pledge that day.
There’s a bright hair’d child would jump and caper.
You may pass the pledge this way!
