To the
Veterans of Sherman[']s Army
"Sherman Marched Down to the Sea" (1866)
A Patriotic Song and Chorus.
Words by Adj't Byers.
Music by William Cumming Peters, 1805 - April 1866

These words were written by Adj't Byers of the 5th Iowa,
while confined in the rebel prison at Columbia North Carolina.
   "The following is the latest army song which Sherman's
veterans were shoutring their victorious march."

St. Louis: J. L. Peters & Bro.
Cincinnati: A. C. Peters & Bro.
New York: William Hall & Son
Philadelphia: Lee & Walker
New York: W. A. Pond & Co.
Engraver: Kirk
Plate number: 1095-4
[Source: 089/168@Levy]

1. Our camp fire shone bright on the mountains
That frown’d on the river below,
While we stood by our guns in the morning
And eagerly watch’d for the foe—
When a rider came out from the darkness
That hung over moun  tain and tree,
And shouted, “Boys up and be ready,
For Sherman will march for the sea.”

[REFRAIN sung after each VERSE]
Then sang we a song to our chieftan,
That echo’d o’er river and lea.
And the stars in our banner’s shone brighter
When Sherman march’d down to the sea.

CHORUS sung after each REFRAIN for VERSEs 1-3]
Then sang we the song of our chieftan,
That echoed o’er river and lea,
And the stars in our banners shone brighter
When Sherman march’d down to the sea.

2. Then cheer upon cheer for bold Sherman
Went up from each valley and glen,
And the bugles of the Patriot dampened
The soil where the traitors’ flag falls.
But we knew that the stars in our banner
More bright in their spendor would be,
And that blessings from Northland would greet us,
When Sherman march’d down to the sea.

3. Then forward, boys, forward to battle,
We march’d on our wearisome way,
And we storm’d the wild hills of Resaca—
God bless those who fell on that day.
Then Kenesaw frown’d in its glory,
Frown’d down on the flag of the free,
But the East and the West bore our standards,
And Sherman march’d down to the sea.

4. Still onward we press’d, till our banners
Swept out from Atlanta’s grim walls,
And the blood of the Patriot dampened
The soil where the traitors’ flag falls.
But we paus’d not to weep for the fallen,
Who slept by each river and tree,
Yet we twin’d them a wreath of the laurel,
And Sherman march’d down to the sea.

CHORUS sung after REFRAIN for VERSE 4
O, proud was our army that morning
That stood where the pine darkly tow’rs,
When Sherman said, “Boys you are weary,
But today fair Savanah is ours.”
