"Girls, Wait
for a Temperance Man" (1867)
Humorous Song and Chorus,
As Sung By
Little Effie Parkhurst,
at the great temperance gatherings in New York, Brooklyn, &c.
Words by
Mrs. M[ary]. A[nn]. Kidder.
Music by Mrs. [Effie A.] Parkhurst. [1836-1918]
Author of "Don't mary a man if he drinks."
"I'll mary no man if he drinks."
"Sign the pledge for Mother's sake."
"Oh help little Mary the drunkard's poor [shot?]."

New York, NY: C. M. Tremaine, No. 481 Broadway
Troy, NY: Charles W. Harris
Philadelphia, PA: G. Andre & Co.
Rochester, NY: H. R. Mackie
Warren, Music Stereotyper, No. 43 Centre St., New York, NY
Plate No. 1371
[Source: uo687@Univ.ofOregon]

1. Young ladies don’t be in a hurry,
  To step into wedlock I pray,
Or set all your friends in a flurry,
  To fix for the wedding so gay;
But then as I know you’re determined
  A husband to get if you can;
Just take the advice I now offer,
  And wait for a temperance man.

CHORUS [sung after each VERSE]
Girls, wait for a temperance man,
A tetotaler if you can,
For your life will be bright and your purse never light,
If you wed with a temperance man.

2. Young men who are given to bitters,
  Or treating their friends on the sly,
Tho’ kneeling quite low in your presence,
  Will oftentimes get very high;
They feel quite at home on the corners,
  They vote the Excise lay a here;
And they’ve plenty of cloves in their pockets,
  When they visit the girl they adore.

3. If your lover should venture to kiss you,
  You’ll soon find out I think—
If you make use of one of your senses
  Whether he is addicted to drink;
And through that square hole in the shutter,
  If one might but venture to peep,
They might there spy out their adorer,
  When all honest folks were asleep.

4. Now girls, if you marry a drunkard,
  A man who walks this way and that,
He scarcely will spare you a dollar,
  To buy a new dress or a hat;
But then as I know you’re determined
  A husband to get if you can,
Just take the advice I now offer,
  And wait for a temperance man.
