"K. K K,
KU[,] KLUX KLAN." (1868)
Comic Song
Written and Arranged
by David A. Warden

Philadelphia, PA: LEE & WALKER, 722 Chestnut St.
[Philadelphia, PA:] W. H. Boner & Co., 1102 Chestnet St.
Charles W. Harris, Troy, N.Y.
[Lithography by] Swain, Phila.
Plate No. 9940  3
[Source: 052/058@Levy]

1. Sensations now are getting rife,
Which makes one think t’insure his life,
For fear of Colt or Bowie knife
And the frightful Ku, Klux, Klan, Sir!
The Fenians bold, will shoot the man;
That dares to speak about their plan,
While southern Rebs have got their ban,
Tis call’d the Ku, Klux, Klan, Sir!

CHORUS [sung after each VERSE]
Hokee, Pokee, Kluxee Klan!
Just hold your breath, or you’re the man
To see a flash, or hear a bang,
From the horrid Ku, Klux, Klan, Sir!

2. A Loyal man of curious mien,
Went down to Memphis fresh and green,
Resolv’d to die, or see, what’s seen
About the Ku, Klux, Klan Sir!
When he got there he spoke and sigh’d
About the South, her hopes and pride,
And said Ben Butler squint and lied,
Which pleas’d the Ku, Klux, Klan, Sir!

3. Next day this man of curious mien,
Then went to Memphis fresh and green,
Receiv’d “a Note” to see what’s seen
That night with the Ku, Klux, Klan Sir!
It briefly stated where he might
See Southern steel both sharp and bright,
To scare the Union out of sight,
By the noble Ku, Klux, Klan, Sir!

4. Then to a cave he found his way,
This Loyal man without dismay,
Where unknown voices seem’d to say
“Dread naught“ the Ku, Klux, Klan Sir!
“Take off your boots” tis holy gound
While horrid gongs banged all around,
He thought old Nick he sure had found,
Among the Ku, Klux, Klan, Sir!

5. The ghost of Stonewall then appears
And told our friend he greatly feared
His keart with Union dirt was smear’d
Unlike the Ku, Klux, Klan Sir!
But brother John quick took the hint
And told his Ghostship he was bent
To bleed the wolf that wont repent,
This pleas’d the Ku, Klux, Klan, Sir!

6. Then scullbone rites, and demon’s yell,
Lit up blue flames of sulph’rous smell,
Reminding him of Milton’s hell—
The home of the Ku, Klux, Klan, Sir!
Old Stonewall then threw off his bier
And swore our friend a Ku, Klux Seer
To go up North to shoot and scare,
To please the Ku, Klux, Klan, Sir!

7. I know a way— the only plan
To rid the earth of this vile gang,
But some will croak O! cruel man,
To hurt the Ku, Klux, Klan, So,
These tender souls who thus demur
Should think what blood there’s yet in store
While one sharp pang would peace restore
And crush the Ku, Klux, Klan, Sir!
