To Miss Josie Page, Scranton, PA
"The Belle of the Opera" (1870)
Words by Miss Lizzie Garrison
Music by Alfred von Rochow

1.
To the Opera, I went one night, and "Martha" was the play,
The music was enchanting and the scene was rich and gay.
And jewels sparkled on fair forms, and eyes sparkl'd as bright,
And oh! I was transported with the gorgeous brilliant sight.
My heart beat fast, my cheeks glow'd red, my eyes the danc'd with light,
And like two round and shining stars, set in the brow of night.
I rais'd my glass to look around, to see what I could see,
And found theat ev'ry op'ra glass was level'd right at me.

CHORUS
Oh smiles and blushes, music sweet, and jewels rivh and rare;
And waving fans in many hands, all fashion beauty there,
My eager eyes drank in the sight as far as I could see,
But ev'ry other eye was bent, admiringly on me.

2.
I turn'd my head to look awhile, and gaze upon the stage,
I knew my hair and dainty hat, would soon be all the rage.
I heard a long-drawn tender sigh, the house was then quite still,
And turn'd to meet a pair of eyes, that made my bossom thrill.
Lady Har-riet was discoursing her most "charming oc-cu-pation,"
And as I gaz'd and listen'd, I forget my own sen-sation,
For those sighs and eyes, in th'oth-er box, seem'd with mine to combine,
As the Lady's song, her lover's heart, with the thread, she did entwine.

(CHORUS)

3.
I rais'd my fan to shield my face, drew my kerchief 'cross my lips,
He press'd his hand upon his heart, kiss'd at me his lilac tips,
Just then the music was encor'd, and bouquets rare and sweet,
Rain'd on the stage, and one by some mischance, fell at my feet,
I pick'd it up to cast below, when a white card caught my sight,
I read in graceful flowing lines, "for the girl with eyes so bright,"
'Twas from him of th'oth-er box, with those flow'rs sweet perfume,
What cared I for the "Rooster Song" or aught else in the room.

(CHORUS)

4.
I smil'd, toy'd with my jewel'd fan, and settl'd my silk dress,
He still gaz'd on uhshinkingly, thro' his golden op'ra glass,
And envious eyes still watching me, let their glances seem'd to say,
We cannot but admire her, she's the "Belle of the Opera."
I left the hall, as the "Hunter's Song," was e-choing for and wide,
When I stepp'd out I started, for a tall from I espied,
In haste I dropp'd my glove he caught it deeply bow'd to me
Said [Spoken]("Au revoir") and then was gone, smiling triumphantly.

(CHORUS)
