Wreath Songs.
Kitty May  |  Mother, Fold Me in You Arms
Two Little Heads Lay Side by Side
Please Let My Brother Go  |  Little Sunshine


"Please Let My Brother Go" (1871)
Song & Chorus
Words by Dexter Smith
Music by C[harles]. A[lbert]. White [1832-1892]

A lad of eleven years was recently brought before the courts
upon the charge of stealing a loaf of bread. He had no sooner
made his appearance in the dock, than his little sister,
passing the gauntlet of police officers, came running up to
him, sobbing as though her heart would break, and flinging
her arms around his neck, cryied, “O, Charlie, they must
let you go!” Charlie cried in sympathy with his little
sister, and every eye in the court-room was moistenen.
After embracing him affectionately, the little girl fell
upon her knees, and with her hands uplifted and the tears
streaming down her cheeks, begged the judge to let her
brother go. the judge could not resist the appeal so
touchingly made, and discharged little Charlie.

  White, Smith & Co.
Boston: 518 Washington St.
New York: 6 E. 17th St.
Chicago: 528 Washington St.
Plate No. 693--3
[Sources: 106/115@Levy; 06192@LoC]

1.
My brother did not mean to steal,
His conscience told him ’twas not right;
But we were very hungry, sir,
That cold and piercing wintry night.
No one would give him work to do;
We begg’d all day for bread in vain;
We nearly starved for food to eat,
Please let my brother go.

CHORUS [sung after each VERSE]
Let my brother go with me,
Please let him go,
Please let my brother go;
please let him go;
For he is all I have in this world,
Please let my brother, brother go.

2.
’Tis many years since father died;
Our gentle father we ne’er knew;
Our uncle turned us from the door.
Pray, what could we poor children do?
We try so hard to live, kind sir,
Our life is little else save woe;
We will do right, indeed, we will,
Please let me brother go.

3.
By day we walk the crowded street,
Beggin so bold for work and bread,
And when night comes we lay us down,
With nought but the blue sky o’erhead;
And then I ask our Father kind
To help the orphans her below;
O, He will bless you, gentle sir,
If you will let my brother go.
