"The Last Hymn" (1877)
Words by Marianne Farningham
[pseud. for Marianne Hearn, 1834-1909]
["Jesus, Lover of My Soul" (1738)
Words by Charles Wesley, 1707-1788;
first set to "Martyn" in 1867]
Composed by J. W. Hicks
[based on "Martyn" (1834)
by Simeon Buckley Marsh, 1798-1875]

Marshall, MI: J. S. White & Co.
J. W. Pepper, Music Eng'r. & P'r., 9th & Filbert Sts., Phila. [PA]
[Source: 1877-09127@LoC]

1. The Sabbath day was ending in, a village by  the sea,
The utter’d benediction touch’d the people tenderly,
And they rose to face the sunset in the glowing, lighted west,
And then hastened to their dwellings, for God’s blessed boon of rest.

2. But they look’d across the waters, and a storm was raging there;
A fierce spirit moved above them, the wild spirit of the air,
And it lash’d and shook and tore them, till they thundered, groaned and boomed,
And alas! for any vessel, in the yawning gulfs entombed.

3. Very anxious were the people on that rocky coast of Wales,
Lest the dawns of coming morrows should be telling awful tales,
When the sea had spent its passion, and should cast upon the shore,
Bits of wreck and swollen victims, as it had done heretofore.

4. With the rough winds blowing round her; a brave woman strain’d her eyes,
And she saw along the billows a large vessel fall and rise,
Oh! it did not need a prophet to tell what the end must be,
For no ship could ride in safety, near that shore on such a sea.

5. Then the pitying people hurried from their homes and throng’d the beach,
Oh! for power to cross the waters and to perishing to reach!
Helpless hands were rung for sorrow tender hearts grew cold with dread,
And the ship urged by the tempest, to the fatal rock shore sped.

6. She has parted in the middle! Oh! the half of her goes down!
God have mercy is his heaven far to seek for those who drown?
Lo! when next the white schock’d faces look with terror on the sea,
Only one last clinging figure on a spar was seen to be.

7. Nearer the trembling watchers, came the wreck toss’d by the wave,
And the man still clung and floated, though no power on earth could save,
“Could we send him a short message? here’s a trumpet! Shout away!
’Twas the preacher’s hand that took it, and he wondered what to say.

8. Any mem’ry of his sermon? Firstly? Secondly? Ah, no,
There was but one thing to utter, in the awful howl of woe;
So he shouted through the trumpet, “Look to Jesus! can you hear?”
“And Aye, aye sir!” rang the answer, o’er the waters loud and clear.

9. Then they listened, He is singing! “Jesus lover of my soul;”
And the winds brought back the echo, “While the nearer waters roll;”
Strange, indeed it was to hear him, “Till the storm of life is past.”
Singing bravely from the waters, “Oh receive my soul at last.”

10. He could have no other refuge! “Hangs my helpless soul on thee;
Leave, oh leave me not!” the singer dropped at last into the sea.
And the watchers looking homeward, though their eyes by tears made dim,
Said “He passed to be with Jesus in the singing of that hymn.”
