Dedicated to the "Home Club" New York
"That Game of Poker!" (1878)
Song & Chorus
Words & Music by Charles MacEvoy

New York: William A. Pond & Co., 25 Union Square,
between 15th & 16th Sts.
[Source: 032/104@Levy]

1.
I'm a man of the world I would have all know,
And to learn of its follies I'm not at all slow.
At the “Home Club” I first  indulg’d with delight, 
In an innocent game that is play’d ev’ry night!
We play’d it with cards call’d “Squeezers,” they said, 
The finest assorted, with backs blue and red! 
But the pastime I sing of is well-known to fame, 
I like it, you all do, “Draw Poker’s” the Game.

CHORUS [sung after each verse]
But that game of Poker, O that game of Poker! 
All other card-games to it really seem tame! 
A square game of Poker, a good game of Poker 
I  like it, you all do! Draw Poker’s the game.

2.
Forty five is the number, a quiet retreat, 
Where  all the gay vot’ries of “Poker” now meet. 
’Twas  there I first “Antied” my checks, hon’t with cash, 
Which were rake’d off quite fast as I bet very “Brash!” 
But during the “Session” four Aces I got, 
I thought it the best had, and cried “that’s my Pot!” 
But, another, with fiendish delight whisper’d “Hush,
”Your hand is no good, for I have a “Straight-flush!

3.
”There’s a “Rake” in this circle call‘d “Kitty” by name: 
We do not object when we sit in the game. 
For the players are jolly, of good things there’s lots, 
While the Landlord, he smiles as so many “Jack Pots,” 
The betting is high when the game waxes hot; 
I once stak’d my pile in a very large “Pot” 
I held three of a kind, but alas! what a fate! 
I was beaten once more by a mean little “Straight!”

4.
I sometimes stand “Pat” when my hand is quite small. 
They can’t raise me out and I never will “Call.” 
At this kind of “Bluff” we are all often caught. 
But the limit is reach’d and the result’s a big “Pot!” 
When we draw to a “Bobtail” with hopes we may fill, 
Our chances are few, but we stick to it still! 
The “Widow’s” made happy and all thro’ our play, 
But what do we care boys as long as we’re gay?

5.
’Tis true that this pastime is often abus’d 
By “Parlorgame” swells, who are justly accus’d 
Of stealing, but yet they don’t give it that name, 
And “I. O. U.’s” tender but ne’r pay the same! 
These fellows infest the best Clubs of the town. 
A few, I could mention, have gain’d some renown 
For playing mean tricks which you’ve all heard about. 
For my part, I play where the chaps are ruled out.

6.
Then let us be merry and bannish dull care. 
Now  deal the cards lively be sure ’tis done fair; 
If luck is not with you, why, don’t be profane. 
Have patience, you’ll win and your losses regain. 
By way of a moral, to close with, I’ll say: 
At Poker be careful, and don’t overplay, 
Unless you are wealthy, pray be not too rash, 
And cut the cards always, ’twill save you your cash.
