COLUMBIA.
A New National Song,
Founded on the History of America
Written and Composed in New York, November 1879.

   Believing the History of America to be an inspiring theme fora grand national song
that shall embody the memorable epochs through which the country has passed, and
continually keep before the eyes of the present and coming generations the price paid
for “Liberty and Union,” and thus inculcate love of country and love of God in every
American heart, I have undertaked the task of weaving into verse the momentous events
that have left their mark on the pages of American history, since the discovery of the
continent.  This verse I have wedded to original music, and both are now respectfully
submitted to the public, for adoption, as the
    National Anthem of America,
  Dedicated to the American People
     by their fellow-citizen,
          P. S. Gilmore.
Originator and general Director of
    the National and International
    Musical Jubilees, held in Boston
    in 1869 and 1872.

"COLUMBIA." (1879)
Poetry and Music by P. S. Gilmore.
[Patrick Sarsfield Gilmore (1839-1892)]

Published for the Author, and for Sale by
The American News Company, New York;
Oliver Ditson & Co., Boston, New York, Philadelphia, and Chicago;
    and at all music stores.
[Source: 012/016@Levy]

1. COLUMBIA! In thine early days
Our Pilgrim Fathers sang thy praise,
They landed from the Mayflower’s deck
On Plymouth Rock— a snowclad speck.
That marks the place from whence the race
Of Puritans their true blood trace,
Who fought for Independence dear
With hearts of steel and conscious clear.

2. COLUMBIA! See, what thou art now,
A crown of stars on Nature’s brow;
With fields of gold and teeming marts,
With fifty million loving hearts
Who cling to thee, from sea to sea,
To guard thy PEACE and LIBERTY;
Who, man to man, shall e’er be just,
And in the Lord place all their trust.

3. COLUMBIA! Lift thine eyes on high,
See HIM! who dwells in yonder sky,
The King of Glory on His Throne,
Who looks on all for all’s His own.
Our earthly gain would be in vain,
A home in Heaven to attain,
If with our hearts we did not pay
Our debt to Him.— Then let us pray.

4. At morn, at noon, at eventide,
O Lord! be ever at our side,
That we Thy voice may always hear,
And feel that Thou are ever near;
In mercy spare, from grief and care,
The Nation, bowed in fervant prayer,
Who ask, with rev’rent love and awe,
GOD BLESS AND SAVE AMERICA.
