"Washington and the Flag" (1879)
A National Anthem
"Strike, Strike, O Liberty, thy Silver Strings!"
Dedicated to
The People of the United States.
Words by
[Col.] Henry B. Carrington, [U.S.A.]
Author of "The Battles of the American Revolution."
Music by Henry S. Thompson, Boston.
Arranged and Harmonized by Benj[amin]. Owen, Chicago

  Author's Note.-- On a pavement slab before the chancel, in
Brighton Chapel, Northampton-shire England, the Washington
family "Coat of Arms" is displayed.
  A bird rising from rest; three, five-pointed stars, upon an
azure field, with parallel red and white bands, suggested the
words which connect the name Washington with the origin of our
national escutcheon.
  So may his memory endure, while the stars multiply, and thus
shall the blood-stripes only deepen the gleaming lustre of the
white; twin-emblems of the sacrifice and purity which assure
a perpetuated Republic.

Boston, MA: Oliver Ditson & Co.
Philadelphia, PA: J. E. Ditson & Co.
Chicago, IL: Lyon & Healy
New York, NY: Chas. Ditson & Co.
San Francisco, CA: Sherman & Hyde
Music Typographers, E. E. Youngston & Sons
Cupler, Pase, Moyer & Co, Printers
[Source: 1880-08514@LoC]

1. Strike, strike, O, Liberty, thy silver strings,
And fill with melody, the clear blue sky!
Give swell to chorus full, to gladness wings,
And let swift heralds with the tidings fly,
Faint not, nor tire but glorify the record
Which honors him who gave the nation life.
Fill up the story, and, with one accord,
Our people hush their conflicts, end their strife!

2. Shout, shout ye people, now, let this appeal,
Spring forth in measure swift, a quickening force,
To make our highest pride, the nations weal,
Advance unfettered in its onward course,
And learn ye, all who breathe, in these our times
To realize the grand o’erwhelming thought,
That he who led our troups, in battle lines,
But, our best interest, ever, ever sought.

3. What then, this story strange! demanding praise!
Why challenge Liberty to lend her voice,
Why, hallelujahs loud, in anthems raise,
And bid the world in plaudits loud rejoice,
Why left the banner with its starlit form
And give it honors grandest and the best,
Unless its blood stripes clear, its stars of gold,
Bring ransom to the toiler— to weary rest.

4. Hail, hail, and greet we all, the stars and stripes!
Memorial emblem of our nation’s sire,
Since from the story of ancestral strike,
He gathered zeal which did his youth inspire,
Fearless and keen in border, bitter, battle,
Careless of risk, while dealing blow for blow,
What did he care for yell, or rifle rattle,
If he in peril only duty e’er could know.

5. Faithful in early youth, he did his work,
And filled its measure full, and ever true,
So, thence, to him, to lead, the nation looked,
When all to arms in holy frenzy flew,
Grand faith was that which did inspire our sires
To honor him so true with chief command,
And fervid be our joy, while beacon fires,
Do honor to this hero, thro’ the land.

6. Strike, strike, O, Liberty, thy silver strings,
Bid nations many, in the contest try,
Tell them, I tell of all thy mercy brings,
For all that languish here, or far or night,
For all oppressed the time shall surely come
When stripped of fear, and hushed each plaintive cry,
All, all will find, will find, in Washington,
The model guide for now, for aye, for aye!
