"THERE'S HONEY [aka "There Is Honey"]
in the
OLD HIVE YET" (1882)
A New National Song and Chorus.
[Words]
by
D. C. MARSH,
Author or "Easter at Our House," and "Our Four Easter Eggs,":--
Containing the "Chicken's Easter Story," a Poem for Children; also:--
"Our Living Boquets," &c.
Music by P. A. Schnecker.

Boston, MA: OLIVER DITSON & CO.
New York: C. H. DITSON & CO.
Chicago: LYON & HEALY.
Phila.: J. E. DITSON & CO.
L. Grunewalk, New Orleans.
Sherman, Clay & Co., San Francisco.
Ludden & Bates, Savannah.
Geo. D. Newhall & Co. Cincinnati.
J. L. Peters, St. Louis.
Otto Sutro, Baltimore.
[Source: 016/063@Levy]

1. The homes of our fathers in the Union did thrive,
And ’twas just in the centre they set up their hive;
The busy bee people while working for money,
Were happy while filling their hive with sweet honey.
There were many new States that came under this hive.
And while eating the honey of our Union did thrive.
The people were happy, the people were free,
The fruit of their labor was sweet as the bee;
Then forth came bold treason by Secession led,
Proclaiming the doctrine that the Union was dead.
She led forth her armies, promised power and money,
To upset the hive and spill out the honey.

CHORUS 1.
As the spirit of Union seem’d passing away,
Then it turn’d back to earth and we all heard it say,
Hold fast to the Union, and never forget
There’s honey, there’s honey in the old hive yet.
Hold fast to the Union, and never forget
There’s honey, there’s honey in the old hive yet,
There is honey for you, there is honey for me,
There is honey for all who come here to be free;
Then always remember, don’t you ever forget,
There’s honey, there’s honey in the old hive yet.

CHORUS 2.
Now my spirit is going, is moving away,
But it turns back to earth and you both hear it say,
Go back to the Union, and never forget
There’s honey, there’s honey in the old hive yet,
There is honey for you, there is honey for me,
There is honey for all who come here to be free;
Then always remember, don’t you ever forget,
There’s honey, there’s honey in the old hive yet.

2. ’Twas when the first bullet at Fort Sumpter was sped,
That it startled the living and bro’t forth the dead;
For Washington’s spirit from heaven above
Came back to this earth on a mission of love.
He looks on the battlefield and he well knows the sound
Of the wounded and dying that do cover the ground.
He looks a little farther, just up by the bars,
And there he sees floating the stripes and the stars.
’Twas down in the valley not far from the sea,
He saw the two figures of Ulysses and Lee.
Very near to their sides his good spirit was led,
And close to their ears in a whisper he said:

3. The war it is ended, was the song that we sung,
To the tune of the Union, the beat of the drum;
Our soldiers march’d home with their flags of the free,
They bro’t back the Union for you and to me.
And now while the brave Lincoln was preparing to cheer,
’Twas the last spark of treason that came wickedly near.
While drawing his pistol the Union was forgot,
He tired at Abraham the sure fatal shot,
And Lincoln went home where true Union doth thrive,
His heart was still beating for the old Union hive.
Now his body is dead and is laid in the grave,
He dies like a martyr, his country to save.

CHORUS 3.
As the spirit of Lincoln was passing away,
Then it turn’d back to earth and we all heard him say,
You’ll always have Union, if you never forget
There’s honey, there’s honey in the old hive yet,
There is honey for you, there is honey for me,
There is honey for all who come here to be free;
Then always remember, don’t you ever forget,
There’s honey, there’s honey in the old hive yet.

4. The homes of our children they are free from alarms,
And we live in the Union, fann’d by its sweet charms,
The hive of our fathers is standing there yet,
Such lessons, just taught us,l we’ll never forget.
Now the contest has ended, and our mothers come near,
From the North and from the South that all add to the cheer.
While all was so happy that hope took high rank,
’Twas Satan who sent forth his very worst crank;
Now watching his chance near the old Union hive,
Old Satan, his master, for a moment did thrive,
Then the nation was clothed in the emblems of gloom,
The bee we loved best from the old hive was gone.

CHORUS 4.
As the spirit of Garfield was passing away,
In the love of the people we all heard him say,
Stay home in the Union, and do not forget
There’s honey, there’s honey in the old hive yet,
There is honey for you, there is honey for me,
There is honey for all who come here to be free;
Then always remember, don’t you ever forget,
There’s honey, there’s honey in the old hive yet.
