Fred E. Reynolds'
Beautiful Songs
As Sung in
Primrose & West's Minstrels,

Adelina, Waltz Song.  -- Beneath the Old Elm Trees.
The Brave Engineer. -- In the Garden of Roses With Thee.
The Home Where My Father and Mother Died.

Written for and sung with immense success by
Mr. Fred. W. Oakland,
The Popular Tenor of Primrose and West's Minstrels.
"The Brave Engineer" (1891)
Composed by Fred. E. Reynolds
  of Primrose & West Minstrels.

New York, NY: Hitchcock and McCargo Publishing Company.
  (Limited.)
  385 Sixth Ave. Above 23d St.
11 Park Row, Opp. The Astor House.
283 Sixth Ave. Below 18th St.
[Source: 057/033@Levy]

1. Like a flash of light the through express,
Flies over the silvery line,
And bearing its burden of human souls,
On, on through the gay sunshine;
See there at the throttle bar, brown and grim,
His deep eyes looking ahead,
The engineer in his oily clothes,
Stands firm and free from dread;
The track is his own, all must give way,
See at the town on there,
The morning freight on the siding waits,
All is right no call for care,
But see an open switch, one move, one move,
And his bar is quick reversed,
And the air brakes drag jump jump or death
On your soul will do its worst.

CHORUS [sung after each VERSE]
The brave engineer, the brave engineer,
Forget not the dangers of the engineer,
Oh, think of the strain on his nerve and his brain,
And pray for the engineer,
Yes, think of the strain on his nerve and his brain,
And pray for the brave engineer.

2. The engine turns upon the switch
Ahead there stands the freight,
He’ll save the train if he keeps his post,
For himself, Ah, well ask fate!
Ah, God a crash the passengers saved
Their faces white with dead,
But under his engine crushed and torn,
The brave engineer lies dead;
Oh, think as your fly through sunshine bright,
Or through the storm and rain,
By day or night, o’er plain or gorge,
Of the engineer of the train,
Think of the thousands of souls he holds
In his grasp without a fear,
Think of the strain on his nerve and brain,
And pray for the brave engineer.

