To my Boys
"When Pershing's Men Go Marching Into Picardy" (1918)
Marching Song
Text by Dana Burnett
Music by James H. Rogers

Boston: Oliver Ditson Company
New York: Chas. H. Ditson & Co.
Chicago: Lyon & Healy
[Source: 197/179@Levy]

When Pershing's men go marching into Picardy,
Marching, marching into Picardy
With their steel aslant in the sunlight, and their great gray hawks awing,
And their wagons rumbling like thunder in spring
Tramp, tramp, tramp, tramp,
Till the earth is shaken,
Tramp, tramp, tramp, tramp,
Till the dead towns waken,
And flowers fall and shouts arise from Chaumond to the sea.
When Pershing's men go marching, marching, into Picardy,
Women of France do you see them pass to the battle of the North,
And do you stand in the doorways now as when your own went forth?
Then smil to them, and call to them, and mark how brave they fare,
Upon the road to Picardy, that only youth may dare.
Tramp, tramp, tramp, tramp,
Foot and horse and caisson,
Tramp, tramp, tramp, tramp,
Each is Freedom's passion,
And oh, take heart, ye weary sould, that stand along the Lye [Lee],
For the New World is marching, marching in to Picardy.

April's in the grass,
And I doubt not that Pershing's men are singing as they pass,
For they are very young men and brave young men, and free,
And they know why they are marching, marching into Picardy.
Tramp, tramp, tramp, tramp,
Rank and file together
Tramp, tramp, tramp, tramp,
Thro' the April weather,
And never spring has thrust such blades against the light of dawn,
As yonder waving stalks of steel that move so shining on.

I have seen the wooden crosses, at Ypress [E-press] and Verdun.
I have mark'd the graves of such as lie where Marse waters run,
And I know their dust is stirring, by hill and vale and lea,
And their souls shall be our captains who march to Picardy.
Tramp, tramp, tramp, tramp,
Hope shall fail us never
Tramp, tramp, tramp, tramp,
Onward and for ever!
And God is in His judgement seat, and Christ is on His tree,
And Pershing's men are marching, marching into Picardy.
