"Dallas Blues" (1912; 1918)
Words by Lloyd Garrett
Music by Hart A. Ward

Published by Frank K. Root & Co.
McKinley Music Co. Owners
Chicago            New York
[Source:WTDDallasBl@U.ofColorado]

1. When your money’s gone, friends have turned you down,
And you wander ’round just like a houn’ (a lonesome houn’)
Then you stop to say, “Let me go away from this old town (this awful town).”
There’s a place I know folks won’t pass me by,
Dallas, Texas, that’s the town I cry! (oh hear me  cry!)
And I’m going back, going back to stay there till I die (until I die). 

CHORUS 1 [sung twice]
I’ve got the Dallas blues and the Main Street heart disease (it’s buzzin’ round)
I’ve got the Dallas Blues and the Main Street heart disease (it’s buzzin’ ’round)
Buzzin’ ’round my head like a swarm of little honey bees (of honey bees).

2. When I got up north, clothes I had to spare,
Sold ’em all to pay my railroad fare (my railroad fare)
Just to come back there riding in a Pullman parlor chair (a parlor chair).
Sent a telagram, this is what I said:
“Baby, bring a cold towel for my head (my aching head)
Got the Dallas Blues and your lovin’ man is almost dead (is almost dead).

CHORUS 2 [sung twice]
I’m goin’ to put myself on a Santa Fe and go (I’m goin’ to go),
I’m goin’ to put myself on a Santa Fe and go (I’m goin’ to go)
To that Texas town where you never see the ice and snow (the ice and snow).

EXTRA CHORUS 3 [sung twice]
I wonder if my sweet lovin’ babe still waits for me (still waits for me),
I wonder if my sweet lovin’ babe still waits for me (still waits for me),
Maybe someone else stole the juicy peaches off my tree (right off my tree).

EXTRA CHORUS 4 [sung twice]
I've heard a lot of folks talk about the blues before (the blues before),
I've heard a lot of folks talk about the blues before (the blues before),
It’s the first time that blues have been aknockin’ at my door (at my front door).

EXTRA CHORUS 5 [sung twice]
Now if you’ve got a girl and she don’t love you no more (love you no more),
Now if you’ve got a girl and she don’t love you no more (love you no more),
Leave her all alone till her lovin’ heart gets good and sore (gets good and sore).
