"Brightly Beaming" (Jun 1860)
Words and Music
by George Frederick Root, 1820-1895

Nw York: Mason Brothers
[Source: No. 185, pp. 105-106, from "The Diapason",
New Music for Singing Classes]

1. Brightly beaming, softly gleaming, 
Falls the sunlight on the sea; 
While o’er fountain, rill and mountain, 
Breeses whisper lovingly: 
Whisper blessings, Minnie, darling, 
Blessings pure and bright for thee.

CHORUS [sung with Verse 1, with overlapping voices]
1. Still so brightly beaming, still so softly gleaming, 
Still so brightly beaming, still so softly gleaming, 
Falls the beauteous sunlight on the smiling sea, 
While o’er the sparkling fountain, over rill and mountain, 
Hear the summer breeses whisper lovingly, 
They seem to whisper bless, ings, whisper, Minnie, darling, 
Blessings pure and bright, yes, pure and bright for thee.

2. Hov’ring o’er us comes a chorus, 
Wild, melodious, and free; 
Sweetly filling, in its trilling, 
Earth with nature’s minstelsy; 
Such a lifesong, Minnie, darling, 
May the angels give to thee.

CHORUS [sung with Verse 2, with overlapping voices]
2. Ever hov’ring o’er us, comes a charmed chorus, 
Ever hov’ring o’er us, comes a charmed chorus, 
Wildly thrilling tones, melodious and free, 
’Tis sweetly, sweetly filling, in its airy trilling, 
All the listening earth with nature’s minstrelsy, 
And such a loving lifesong, little Minnie, darling, 
May the blessed angels ever give to thee.

3. O’er the meadows, twilight’s shadows 
Gently bid the sunlight flee; 
Brightly shining, gems are lining 
Heaven’s eternal canopy; 
Such an evening, Minnie, darling, 
May life’s evening bring to thee. 

CHORUS [sung with Verse 3, with overlapping voices]
3. Ovver all the meadows, now the twilight’s shadows, 
Over all the meadows, now he twilight shadows 
Gently bid  the sunlight, bid the sunlight flee, 
While brightly shining gems so brilliantly are lining, 
Brilliantly the heaven’s ethereal canopy; 
O such a glorious evening, precious Minnie, darling, 
May they happy life in closing bring to thee.
