"Father Abraham's Reply to the 600,000!" (26 Dep 1862)
Words by the author of "Sybelle."
Music adapted and partly composed by George Frederick Root.

Chicago: ROOT & CADY, 95 Clark St.
Plate No. 247 4
[Source: 200001876@LoC/IHAS-CWM;
23124; Copyright Library June 1863; M1640.R]

1. 
I welcome you, my gallant boys, from Main’s resounding shore,
From far New Hampshire’s granite hills I see your legions pour;
From Massachusetts fertile vales, from old Vermont they come;
Connecticut wheels into line at rolling of the drum,
And little Rhody springs to arms, like David in his might,
Upon rebellion’s giant front to strike one blow for right,
One blow for right, my hero boys, for right and Uncle Sam,
Strike, and receive the blessings of the God of Abraham.

CHORUS [sung after each verse]
’Tis glorious, ’tis glorious, to see your legions pour,
I welcome you my gallant boys, SIX HUNDRED THOUSAND MORE.

2. 
I see from all her boundaries the glorious Empire State
A countless host is sending forth with freemen.s hopes elate;
From Delaware there comes a gleam of white and crimson bars,
Where faithful hands are holding up the banner of the stars;
New Jersey answers to the call, as if along her shore,
Each grain of sand had said, we come, six hundred thousand more,
We come to strike for liberty for right and Uncle Sam,
Who gives us all the blessings of the God of Abraham.

3. 
And Pennsylvania, keystone of this glorious Union arch
Is sounding thro’ her thousand caves the thrilling order march!
I see her dusky sons come forth from ev’ry darken’d mine,
And, like the clouds along her hills swift forming into line;
Their eyes have such a fiery gleam from glowing forges caught,
Their arms such strength as if they were of iron sinews wrought;
I think, when on Secession’s head they strike for Uncle Sam,
Each blow will fail like vengeance from the God of Abraham.

4. 
I see adown you Western vales your legions pour, my boys;
Ohio, Indiana and my own lov’d Illinois,
And Iowa, and Michigan, and Minnesota, too,
And far Wisconsin’s prairies send their heroes tried and true,
Come on, Oh! living avalanche! break into floods of light,
And roll your waves of truth along Secession’s shores of night,
Drown out rebellion, as of old and then with Uncle Sam,
Safe in the Ark of State, we’ll praise the God of Abraham.

