[58]
"Benny Haven's O" [1864]
A
McClellan Campaign
Song and Chorus.

  Benny Haven is the name of a man who in other days dispensed 
buckwheat cakes, with accompaniments, to such cadets of West 
Point as were daring enough to break through the regulations 
and visit his establishment. "Benny Haven's O" has become 
classic ground to the men of West Point. The author of 
"Cadet-Life at West Point" tells us that gray-haired veterans, 
"the bravest and wisest from the councils of both war
and state," when they revisit West Point, make a "pilgrimage 
to Benny's sylvan shrine." We believe the old man presides 
there no more.
  The song "Benny Haven's O," arranged to a very simple air, 
is to the West Point man what the _Ranz des Vaches_ is to the 
Swiss, or the pibroch of his clan to the Highlander. It was 
sung by the officers of the American Army in the "Hall of the 
Montezumas." Stanzas are continually added by the different 
classes of graduates. "Benny Haven O" does now now denote 
merely the house in which buckwheat cakes were dispensed; it 
is a poetical expression equivalent to "Areadia," "Atlantis," 
or "the Happy Isles," indicating a state of things in which 
all wrongs are righted, and every thing is as it should be.
  When General McClelland visited West Point about a year ago 
the cadets gathered around him, and sung "Benny Haven's O," 
the General joining in the Chorus with as much spirit as he 
had done in other days. It is said that the cadets made 
themselves hoarse with shouting "Hurrah for McClellan!" On 
that occasion the General was suprized with the following 
stanza, which was sung with peculiar animation:

"Here's a health to George McClellan! God bless the young here!
  He's an honor to his country, and a terror to the foe.
May he long rest on his laurels, and trouble never know,
  And live to see a thousand years at Benny Haven's O!"

Written by
Noble Butler,
[Music -- anonymous]

[27491]
Louisville, KY: D. P. FAULDS, No. 233 Main Street, 
  between. 2d and 3d
[M 1640
  .B]
[Plate No.] 1380--4.
J. Slinglandt, Engr. & Pr.
[Source: civilwardigital.com]

1. Hurrah for George McClellan!
  To Washington he’ll go,
And to the plots of wicked men,
  Will give a fatal blow;
The Constitution o’er the land
  Its ample shield shall throw,
And North and South shall meet again
  At Benny Haven’s O.

CHORUS [sung after each VERSE]
Hurrah for George McClellan!
  At Benny Haven’s O,
And North and South shall meet again
  At Benny Haven’s O.

2. Hurrah for George McClellan!
  “To whom it may concern,”
Beware how you attempt again
  The law to overturn!
The free and proud American
  His rights henceforth shall know,
And, knowing them, shall dare maintain
  At Benny Haven’s O.

3. Hurrah for George McClellan!
  He’ll ope the prisondoor,
And freemen shall be kept in chains
  Unlawfully no more;
The “little bell” shall tinkle
  For the prisoner to go
To see the dear ones once again
  At Benny Haven’s O.

4. Hurrah for George McClellan!
  The press again is free!
And at the polls where freemen vote
  No bayonet shall be!
Free press, free speech, free ballot!
  If tyrants shall say no,
We’ll show them they’re mistaken sore
  At Benny Haven’s O.

5. Hurrah for George McClellan!
  Our flag shall wave on high,
Until its stars shall mingle
  With the stars that light the sky;
And not one star be wanting,
  But every one shall glow
In brighter light, undimmed by time,
  At Benny Haven’s O.

6. Hurrah for George McClellan!
  The merry songs of peace
Shall sound aloud throughout the land,
  The wail of woe shall cease;
United firm in friendship,
  Americans shall know
No North, no South, no East, no West,
  At Benny Haven’s O.
