"Freedom's Home and Flag" [1864]
A New National Song
Respectfully Dedicated to the Ladies and Gentlemen,
having charge ofr the GREAT CENTRAL FAIR for the
U. S. SANITARY COMMISSION
Words by
Edwin Sleeper
Private Co. E. 119th Regt. P. V.
music by
G. W. Beckel.
Principal Musician 82nd Regt. P. V.

Philadelphia, PA: LEE & WALKER, 722 Chesnut St.
[Source: civilwardigital.com]

Written by EDWIN SLEEPER. Private of the 119th Pennsylvania
Volunteers, a Participant in the following Battles,
Fredericksburgh, Dec, 1862 and April 1863. Wounded at
Chancellorville May 1863.

Music by GEO. W. BECKEL. Chief Musician of the 82nd Regt.
Pennsylvania Volunteers, and Participant in the following
Battles, Fair Oaks, Seven Pines, Malvern Hill, Antietam,
Fredericksburg, Maryes Heights, Gettysburg &c.


1. When freedom long in thraldom lain,
  And crush’d to Earth by tyrant’s feet;
Arising, strove to burst her chain,
  Then sought some place to fix her seat.
In vain she searched historic ground,
  On all beheld despotic bands,
But westward turned her hopes to found
  A lasting home in new found lands.

CHORUS [sung after each VERSE]
Hurrah! hurrah! as liberty the soul inflates
Exalt her praise and hail the free United States,
Hurrah! hurrah! as liberty the soul inflates
Exalt her praise and hail the free United States.

2. She called her scanty offspring forth,
  Across Atlanties billows wide
Bold, dauntless men from chilly north,
  To follow her let what betide.
They came; despising danger, toil,
  Increased in numbers pow’r and skill,
And gained her all this genial soil,
  When Yorktown’s final din was still.

3. She made for them a standard bright,
  Where seven red stripes, of zealous hue;
And six of pure untainted white:
  Bear spangled field of faithful blue.
To glory it was delicate,
  Display it ever, proudly high;
Its ev’ry star denotes a state
  Confed’rate in fraternal tie.

4. We true descendants from brave sures,
  Renowed in arts, in war and thrift;
In us eternal burn their fires:
  Maintaining still the priceless gift.
From broad spread ice to tropic glare,
  On either hand from sea to sea;
How sweet the greetings fill the air
  Of millions blest, united free.
