Respectfully Dedicated to
Major General George G. Meade.
"Jenny Wade,
The Heroine of Gettyburg" (1864)
[27043; Copyright Library 16 Jan 1865; M 1640.W]
[the battle occured 1-3 July 1863]
Words by Albert G. Anderson.
Music by Rudolf Wittig.

Philadelphia, PA: William R. Smith, at
No. 135 North Eighth Street, above Cherry, east side.
[Source: 200002164@LoC/IHAS-CWM, missing last page;
088/105@Levy, includes last page (chorus)]

INCIDENT- It was at the Battle of Gettysburg, where so many of
our brave Soldiers nobly died in the defiance of the Union,
that Jenny Wade, the Heroine of Gettysburg, was killed. She was
making bread for our army during the battle, having refused to
leave her house, which was in range of both armies, and was
shot through the heart.

---
Fare thee well, brave spirit! never
  Shall thy wreath of laurels fade,
Fragrant flowers shall bloom forever,
  O’er the grave of Jenny Wade.
---

1. Raise high the monumental pile 
Of marble pure and white! 
A life which gladden’d earth erewhile 
Has pass’d to realms of light. 
Raise high the monumental pile 
To one who hated wrong; 
And tearful bards her fame, the while 
Perpetuate in song.

CHORUS [sung after verses 1-­3 only]
In the quiet churchyard sleeping, 
With the bravest fitly laid, 
Moans the wind through willows weeping 
O’er the grave of Jenny Wade.

2. When man has done some gallant deed, 
We yield a wild acclaim, 
And booming cannon speak the meed 
Bestow’d upon his name, if death on battlefield he braved, 
And served his country well, 
We wrap him in the flag that waved 
Above him when he fell.

3. When to the north wind rebels threw 
Their noisome traitor rag, 
The courage of a woman true 
Up held our dear old flag; 
Where’er that starry flag shall wave, 
Mid clouds or on the plain, 
Remember’d be thy hallow’d grave,— 
For home and country slain.

4. Thy bright example still shall serve 
Our soldiers in the fight; 
Tho’ dead, thy spirit yet shall serve 
Free men defending right; 
Thy death a nation long shall mourn, 
Thy deeds embellish arts, 
Thy name on breeze and billow borne 
Thy mem’ry in our hearts.

CHORUS [sung after verse 4 only]
Fare thee well, brave spirit! never 
Shall thy wreath of laurels fade; 
Fragrant flowers shall bloom forever 
O’er the grave of Jenny Wade.

