"Our Flag, Our Army, and Our President!" (1864)
Quartette.
Words by James T. Dudley
Music by William H. Perry

New York, NY: Horace Waters, 481 Broadway
[Source: 005/073@Levy]

1.
Hither we come to stand beneath the flag,
Whose stars are brightest of all stars tonight;
Hither we come to vow again our love,
For those proud colors, red and blue and white;
And while upon its radiance we shall gaze,
The pray'r upon the lips of all shall be!
God bless the flag our fathers gave to us!
God bless the glorious ensign of the free! 

CHORUS 1
God bless the Flag our fathers gave to us!
God bless the glorious ensign of the free! 

2.
Hither we come to give our fondest thanks
To those brave ones who fearless stand tonight;
Between our homes and treason's blasting hate,
Writing in blood their love for truth and right;
Hither we came brave brothers, in the front,
To give anew our hearts and hands to thee!
God bless our Grant and all his noble band!
God bless the dauntless armies of the free!

CHORUS 2
God bless our Grant and all his noble band!
God bless the dauntless Armies of the free! 

3.
Hither we come to pledge anew our vows
To him who through the darkness of the night;
The nation's head, the saddest weight has borne,
With honest heart and living faith in right;
Hith-er we come to pledge anew our vows,
And hope for peace with treason stricken dumb.
Standing by him, when first the sun went down,
We'll stnad by him, until the morn shall come.

CHORUS 3
Standing by him when first the sun went down,
We'll stand by him until the morn shall come.

4.
We hail thee then, thou glorious stars and stripes!
Thy folds shall wave forever proud and free!
We hail thee brave ones standing by the flag!
Thy feet shall find the path to victory;
We hail thee no-ble one whose name we raise
Again upon our shouts with glad consent!
Tonight with Loyal hearts our cry shall be,
Our Flag, our Army and our President!

CHORUS 4
Tonight with loyal hearts our cry shall be,
Our Flag, our Army, and our President!
