"The Captain’s Sly Glance
and
Oh! They Marched Thro’ the Town!"
([Deposited] 6 May 1864)
[Copyright Library 27 Oct 1864]
[M 1640.W
Poetry by
William J. Wetmore and Tho[ma]s. Haynes Bayly
Newly Arranged
[by Dr. William J. Wetmore]
for the
Piano Forte.

New York: S. T. Gordon, 538 Broadway
Geo. F. Swain, Lithographer
[Source: 1864-200002206@LoC/IHAS/CWS]

1. O! they march’d through the town, with their banners so gay,
To my casement I ran, just to hear the band play;
And I peep’d through the blind very cautiously then,
Lest the neighbors should say that I looked at the men.
Oh! I heard not the tune, though the music was sweet,
For my eyes at the time, had a much greater treat.
For the troop was the finest that e’er I did see,
And the Captain by chance, caught a sly glimpse of me.

2. When we met at the ball, I of course thought it right,
To pretend that we  never had met till that night;
But he knew me at once I perceived by his glance,
And I looked down and blushed, when he asked me to dance.
Oh! I sat by the side, at the close of the set,
And the sweet words he breathed I can never forget,
My heart was enlisted and could not get free,
For the Captain by chance caught a sly glimpse of me.

3. I heard the rolling drums, and I ran with flying feet,
To see the soldiers marching in platoons along the street;
The starry banners wav’d, And the men were gaily dress’d,
But the Captain glorious fellow, proudly shone above the rest:
The ladies all declar’d as he walk’d with such an air,
It was quite Napoleonic, It was proudly militair;
In the street or at the ball, wherever it might be,
I saw the splendid creature cast sly glances at me.

4. But the troop has departed, I heard the tramp, tramp,
Of the men as they marched, from the town for the camp,
The fife and the drum made my heart wildly beat,
The music I loved but ’twas mournfully sweet.
How well I remember when we met at the ball,
So stately he looked so graceful and tall;
But he’s gone and I fancy no pleasure I see,
For the Captain no more slyly glances at me.

5. I brush off a tear but I can not tell why,
They say he’s in battle, where cannon balls fly;
But where’er he may be he’ll win fame and renown,
And then he’ll return, to astonish the town.
But what do I see! ’tis the Captain I know,
My heart, how it beats! my cheeks, how they glow!
But a word in your ear, come here nightly you’ll see
The Captain, dear Captain slyly glancing at me.
