"The Happy Contraband" (1864)
As Composed and Sung at the
Academy of Music, New Orleans,
by Billy Emerson,
[alias for William Emerson Redmond]
The Popular Ethiopian Comedian.

New Orleans: Blackmar & Co., 167 Canal Street
Louisville: D. P. Faulds
Memphis: Blalock & Co.
Augusta: Blackmar & Co.
Plate Number: 127
[Source: 088/065@Levy]

1. I’m a happy contrahand, lately come from Old Virginny, 
For Master there I used to dig and hoe, 
But as “Secush” he was rated, and his things was confiscated, 
And I don’t know where the debil for to go;  
I haven’t got no clothes, my feet are almost froze, 
Cold winter, you know is coming on, 
But I never died yet, so I’ll just get up and “git,” 
I’ll sing and dance to keep myself warm, 
  For I tell you I’m a Happy Contraband.

2. Before this war broke out, I had always peace and plenty, 
I had nothing for to trouble my poor head, 
But now I’s feel quite old, though my age is only twenty, 
Oh Lord, I often wish that I was dead;  
Bit it’s no use to grieve, I’d just as soon live, 
And that you can see at a glance, 
So keep an eye on me, and I’ll soon let you see 
How the poor color’d folks can sing and dance, 
  For I tell you I’m a Happy Contraband.

3. I know a little gal down in Old Virginny,
And I love her dearly as I love my life,
She squints with both her eyes and she’s got a piccaninny
And I ’spect some day to make that gal my wife,
When this cruel war is over, O won’t we live in clover,
To think of it makes my heart feel bigger.
Then away with ’mancipation, give back the old plantation,
’Tis the best place in the world for the nigger,
  That’s the idea of the Happy Contraband.

4. I have heard that Horace Greely lets his tongue go pretty freely
Says he’d like to free the niggers everywhere,
But such men they ought to check, put a rope around his neck
And swing him up to dance upon the air;
Such silly “white trash” should all be sent to smash
For lying so about emancipation,
For I tell you white folks, the poor black mokes
Are better off down on the old plantation,
  That’s the idea of the Happy Contraband.
