[Cover Page: "The Massacre of Fort Pillow"]
[Title Page:] "The Massacre at Fort Pillow"  (1864)
(28484; Copyright Library 5 Aug 1865; M 1640.H)
Song & Chorus
Words by Charles Haynes
Music by James Edward Haynes

Chicago, IL: H. M. Higgins, 117 Randolf St.
[Source: 200001351@LoC/IHAS-CWM]

1. Fort Pillow has fallen, the nation doth mourn,
  The loss of the garrison brave; 
Who fought for fair freedom and gave up their lives, 
  Our glorious banner to save. 
On came the proud traitors with hisses and yells, 
  Surrender the works now they cry, 
No! shouts our Commander, we’ll stand at our posts, 
  And fight, till we conquer or die, 
  And fight, till we conquer or die.

CHORUS [sung after each verse]
Sleep on patriot soldiers no more can you fight, 
  Or march at the word of command; 
For you gallantly fell in defence of the right, 
  You perished to save our fair land.

2. The works were assaulted and many were slain,
  Our soldiers stood firm to a man;
Though they fought us like Demons, the right was maintained,
  And the Fort still remained in our hands.
The traitors now hoisted the emblem of peace,
  A conference their leaders request,
A parley was granted, the firing ceased,
  And we waited the Rebel behest,
  And we waitted the Rebel behest.

3. Meanwhile the vile traitors crouched under our guns,
  Like tigers in spring on their prey,
When the Truce should be over the signal was given,
  They our patriot soldiers would slay.
Again the demand for surrender was made,
  Once more our Commander said no!
Their plan to destroy us securely was laid,
  And firing commenced by the foe,
  And firing commenced by the foe.

4. Up sprang the fierce traitors right into the Fort,
  Upon our brave soldiers they rushed,
Their numbers were strong and they pressed un so hard,
  That our Nations brave heroes were crushed.
O’erpowered by the rebels they threw down their arms,
  With hands raised for mercy they cry,
In vain they appealed for protection from harm,
  The traitors had doomed them to die,
  The traitors had doomed them to die.
