Inscribed to the Ohio National Guard.
Song and Chorus.
"Terrible Tough!" (26 May 1864)
Being
The Answer of Timothy Huff
To the Call of Governor Brough.
by Benjamin Russell Hanby, 22 Jul 1833 - 16 Mar 1867

Cincinnati, OH: JOHN CHURCH, JR., 66 West Fouth Street
[Source: 200001313@LoC/CWS]

1. A farmer he sat with his chin in his hands,
Looking composedly over his lands,
Counting his acres, and laying his plans,
 When an officer came that way;
“The Governor calls for our company’s men;
Timothy, meet us tomorrow at ten;”
Timothy chanted a sorrowful strain,
 And this was his pitiful lay:

CHORUS 1
“O, Governor Brough! It’s terrible tough!
I declare, you’ve treated us downright rough!;
 ’Tis a very unfortunate call:
Why, had’nt the Gover’ment soldiers enough,
That you make a demand upon Timothy Huff?—
 It’s agoin’ to ruin us all.”

2. The plow and the harrow I s’pose must stop, 
Grocers and merchants must close their shops, 
Ev ery body let every thing drop, 
 And go at the Governor’s call. 
Why, how  will Sallie take care of our chaps, 
And who do you s’pose ’ll look after my craps, 
And how in the world shall I fix up my traps?
 Don’t you see I can't go till fall?

CHORUS 2
“O, Governor Brough! it’s terrible tough!
I declare you’ve treated us down right rough;
 ’Tis a very unfortunate call.
Why had’nt the Gover’ment soldiers enough, 
That you make a demand upon Timothy Huff? 
 It’s agoin’ to ruin us all.”

3. Up spoke John B. and he says, says he, 
“Timothy, didn’t you vot for me?” 
And by that says Timothy, “yes, siree! 
 The Gover’ment needed you!”
“Well, I went at it with brain and plan,
I’m working, this moment, as hard as I can;
Hurry up, Tomothy, like a man,
 And help me to put it through.” 

CHORUS 3
“Yes! but Governor Brough, it’s tol’able tough,
’Pears like it was treatin’ us sort o’ rough,
 That you’ve been and issued this call.
I’m sorry the Gover’ment hadn’t enough;
’Twill discombobelate Timothy Huff;
 Aren’t you ’feared ’t mought ruin us all?”

4. “It wasn’t so handy,” says Governor B.,
“When you and the rest of ’em called upon me;
But I brought as an offering, full and free,
 To the work you gave me to do,
A heart full of love, and a soul on fire,
A body some hundreds of pounds, entire,
With all that I had, should the case require;
 And, Timothy, so should you.”

CHORUS 4
“Still, Governor Brough, it’s a    leetle bit tough,
Though I reckon you thought it was proper enough
 To make this remarkable call;
When Gover’ment sends for Timothy Huff,
He must go or they’ll handle him powerful rough,
 So Timothy goes— that’s all!”

5. “O! what are the blossoms we hoped would blow,
What are the crops that our farms might grow,
If all may be swept by a merciless foe,
 With sword, and fagot, and flame?
Strike for your country while yet you may;
’Tis a paltry service you’re called to pay;
Home again by the hundreth day,
 And a land delivered from shame!’

CHORUS 5
“Well, Governor Brough, it’s kinderish tough,
But I guess, on the whole, it was all right enough,
 That you made this sensible call;
If the country needs timber for fighting stuff,
’Tis proper to call upon Timothy Huff'
 I’m glad you offered us all.”

6. “Our brethren have left us for weary years,
Their wives and little ones bathed in tears,
Hearts full of ardor, yet chilled with fears
 For their country and liberty;
Homes have been stricken by War’s dread rod,
Bodies by thousands lie under the sod,
Patriot souls have gone up to their God,
 All this for you and for me.”

CHORUS 6
“O, Governor Brough, enough! enough!
I reckon I’ve spoken a little too bluff;
 I s’pose this isn’t so overly tough;
I see, old hero, you’re just the stuff:
I’ll follow your banner through smooth and rough
 Till we drive the foe to the wall.
[Extra lines?]
Call our your men till you’re sure you’ve enough,
Come on! you’re welcome to Timothy Huff!
 Hurrah! hurrah! hurrah!”

