"The Unknown Soldier!"  (27 Oct 1864)
[M 1640 .H]
(Who is He?)
Respectfully dedicated to the
Orphans of the Brave Soldiers
who have fallen in defence of their Country.
SONG
Words by
Gen. W. H. Hayward
Music by 
Maj. Wilson G. Horner

New York: William A. Pond & Co., 547 Broadway
Baltimore: Miller & Beacham
(Lithographer?) Stackpole Sc.
Engraved at Clayton's.
Plate No. 5932 
[Source: 200001422@IHAS/LoC]

    "After the battles of Gettysburg, July, 1st, 2d, and 3d, 1863, a Union Soldier was found, in a secluded
spot on the filed, where, wounded, he had laid himself down to die. In his hands, tightly clasped, was an ambroytype containing the portraits of three small childer, and upon this picture his eyes, set in death,
rested. The last object upon which the dying father looked was the image of his children, and as he si-
lently gazed upon them, his soul passed away. How touching! How solemn! What pen can describe
the emotions of this patriot father as he gazed upon the children, so soon to be made orphans? Wounded and
alone, the din of batter still sounding in his ears, he lies down to die. His last thoughts and prayers are for
his family. He has finished his worked on earth; his last battle has been fought; he has freely given his life to
his country; and now, while his life blood is ebbing, he clasps in his hands the image of his children, and
commending them to the God of the fatherless, rests his last lingering look upon them."
    When, after the battle, the dead were being buried, this soldier was thus found. The ambrotype was
taken from his embrace, and has since been sent to Philadelphia for recognition. Nothing else was found up-
on his person by which he might be identified. His grave has been marked, howver, and if be any mean's
this ambrotype will lead to his recognition, he canbe disintered. This picture is now in the possession of
Dr. Bourns, No. 1104 Spring Garden street, Philadelphia, who can be called upon or addressed in reference
to it. The children, two boys and a girl, are apparently nine, seven and five years of age; the boys be-
ing respectively the oldest and youngest of the three. The youngest boy is sitting in a high chair, and on
each side of him are his brother and sister. The oldest boy's jacket is made from the same material as
his sister's dress. These are the most prominent features of the group. Of what inestimable value will it
be to these children, proving, as it does, that the last thoughts of their dying father was for them and them
only.

1. Let me gaze upon this picture, 
Whilst my lifeblood from me flows;
On these dear lov’d hadpy faces, 
Ere in death my eyelids close.
Next to my heart I wore it— 
Not millions could it buy;
Let me see my heart’s own treasures, 
And kiss themn as I die.

2. Here upon the cold ground lying— 
The earth my last  lone bed;
No kind friend to watch me dying— 
Or know me when I’m dead.
A tender wife and mother, 
Doth for my children care, 
And nightly bending o’er them, 
To God breathes forth her prayer.

3. That we all may meet together
In peace again once more;
That around the happy fireside
Kind Heav’n will me restore.
But I feel my pulse grows weaker;
My eyes— I scarce can see!
Still I recognize the features
Of my little boy— ’tis he!

4. My darling boys and loving daughter,
Let none their image tear
From this poor dying, bleeding heart,
Now offering up this prayer—
Oh, God! protect the mother
And these my orphans dear;
I die alone— none near me—
No one to shed a tear.

5. Some stranger hand will find me—
For me a grave prepare;
On my breast they’ll place this picture,
And say they found it there.
Let the Flag be wrapped around me—
The Stars and Stripes I love!
I die a Union soldier,
True as the heavens above.

6. The flowers will bloom as sweetly
O’er the unknown soldier’s grave,
With his heart’s loved idols near him,
And the Flag he died to save.
No stone will mark the spot
Of the stranger ’neath the sod,
Where so peacefully he slumbers,
Unknown— save to his God.
