The
Union Collection
of
Patriotic Songs

Oh! Cling to the Union ... G.R. Poulton
National Medley ... 
Hazel Eyed Nannie ... G. R. Poulton
Coming Through the Woods Polka , , , Capt C. Wilson
Crown the Pale Hero ... J. B. Salisbury

Wizard's Schottisch ... J. M. Wilson
Conscripts Gd. March ... F. V. Streeter
Gettysburg Victory March ... 2 Flutes & Guitar
Union Polka & March ... G. R. Poulton

and
Instrumental Pieces

"Crown the Pale Hero" [15 Mar 1865]
To the memory of Col. W. W. Bates.
Words & Music by J. B. Salisbury

Rochester, NY: W. S. Mackie & Son
  Music & Piano Dealers
  82 State St.
New York: Firth, Son & Co,
Boston: O. Ditson & Co.
Phila.: Lee & Walker.
Chicago: Root & Cady.
[Plate no.] F.S.& Co. 5865
[27938
775
M 1640
  .S
March 15, 1865
COPYRIGHT
May 5 1865
LIBRARY]
[Source: civilwardigital.com]

1. Crown, crown the pale hero with garlands of flow’rs,
  Plucked by fair hands from beauteous bowers;
Crown, crown the pale hero with flowers in bloom,
  Sweet, beautiful emblems to strew o’er the tomb,
  Sweet, beautiful emblems to strew o’er the tomb.

CHORUS 1-4 [sung after each VERSE]
Crown, crown the pale hero, with garlands of flow’rs,
  Pluck’d by fair hands from beauteous bowers,
Crown, crown the young hero with flowers in bloom,
  Sweet beautiful emblems to strew o’er the tomb,
  Sweet beautiful emblems to strew o’er the tomb.

2. Crown, crown the pale hero, he fought to the last,
  As brave as our fathers who fought in the past
For their homes, and their loves, and their country’s dear name
  He has caught their example and echoed their fame.
  He has caught their example and echoed their fame.

3. Crown, crown the pale hero, he died in his youth,
  Died leading the charge ’gainst th’oppressers of truth,
Died battling for freedom with sword and with fire,
  Died singing death’s song, tuned to liberty’s lyre.
  Died singing death’s song, tuned to liberty’s lyre.

4. Gray hairs are now waiting their son’s last return,
  Old eyes are now weeping, as memory’s urn
Turns out o’er their souls the beautiful past—
  Twas sweet, oh! ’twas sweet, why could it not last?
  Twas sweet, oh! ’twas sweet, why could it not last?

5. Crown, crown the pale hero, he sleeps his last sleep
  Near the home of his youth, and many friends weep
O’er’the flower strewn grave where they laid him to rest,
  And the clods of the valley lie cold on his breast.
  And the clods of the valley lie cold on his breast.

CHORUS for Last VERSE
Crown, crown the pale hero, his trials are o’er,
  His steps resound on the evergreen shore,
His soul leaps in song with the choirs above,
  And the arches of heav’n echo anthems of love,
  And the arches of heav’n echo anthems of love.