"Dear Mother I'm Wounded" (1865)
Words by
J. M. M.
Music by
Clarence Edwards

Boston, MA: G. D. Russell & Company, 126 Tremont,
  Opp. Park St.
[Library of Congress
Class. M 1640
  .E
Acc. no. 116135]
[Plate no.] 449
[Source: 1865-200001035@LoC/IHAS-CWM]

1. We’ve had a battle, Mother, and I am glad to say
Tho’ the odds were all against us, we gained at last the day;
It was a desp’rate struggle, the rebels fought us well,
But our brave boys fought better still, as all who live can tell.
We charged the foe at morning, at the rising of the sun,
And the work of death went hotly on until the day was done,
There was clashing steel and bursting shell and cannon thund’ring round,
Snd as the conflict deepen’d full many a sadder sound.

CHORUS [sung after each VERSE]
Weˆve had a battle Mother, and I am glad to say:
Tho’ the odds were all against us,
We gained at last the day.

2. But I lived to see it ended to see the twilight fall
Around my poor dead comrades, like a shadowy funeral pall.
I was glad in looking upward that heav’n was so serene,
For earth below, in the stars pale glow, was a sad and piteous scene.
This fighting’s serious business, more serious than it seemed
When ’mid my books last summer such foolish dreams I dreamed;
Then war appeared a pastime a picture rich and bright
Ah! the picture has a darker side, less pleasant to the sight.

3. But there’s one thing gained dear mother, I am a boy no more,
I feel almost the steadiness and wisdom of threescore,
And I love my country better since I’ve battled in her cause
And shed my blood as freely to defend her sacred laws.
Yes I’ve shed my blood I’m wounded, now, do not grieve I pray,
But to tell the truth, dear mother, both my legs are shot away
You call this something fearful but think you Charley’s life
Or what were worse his honor might have gone in this wild strife.

4. Ah that is safe dear mother, and I think it sooth’s my pain
To hear our Colonel say: I helped the victory to gain.
And he often comes to see me and still with smiling mien,
He says how fares my Hero, my veteran of Eighteen
I hope you’ll come soon mother, and remember when we meet
Tho’ I can not run to welcome you with light and nimble feet
Yet I’ve arms to clasp you round mother, and a heart to love you still
So we’ll be content and thankful and resigned to heaven’s will.
