[66]
[Copyright received December 8 1865
Publication Deposited same day]
Most Respectfully Dedicated to
Brig. Gen. Andrew W[oods]. Denison, [? - 1877]
Who lost an Arm whilst gallantly leading the
Maryland Brigade at the Battle of the Wilderness. [in VA, 1864]
"Good Bye, Old
Arm!" [6 Dec 1865]

  In the hospital at Nashville, a short time ago, a wounded here was
lying on the amputation table, under the influence of chloroform. They
cut off his strong right and cast-it all bleeding, upon the pile of
human limbs. Then they laid him gently upon his couch. He woke
from his stupor and missed his arm. With his left arm he lefted the
cloth, and there was nothing but the gory stump. "Where's my
arm?" he cried; "get my arm; I want to see it once more-- my strong
right arm." They brought it to him. He took hold of the cold,
clammy fingers, and, looking steadfastly at the poor, dead member,
thus addressed it with tearful earnestness: "Good Bye, Old Arm, we
have been a long time together-- we must part now; Good Bye, Old
Arm, you'll never fire another carbine, nor swing another sabre for
the Government," and the tears rolled down his cheeks. He then said
to those standing by-- "Understand, I don't regret its loss. It has
been torn from my body that not one State should be torn from this
glorious Union."

Written by
Gen[eral]. W[illiam]. H. Hayward.

Baltimore, MD: GEORGE WILLIG, No. 1 N. Charles St. 
[30627]
[COPYRIGHT
 Apr 1866
LIBRARY]
[M 1640
  .H]
[Plate No.] 2825
Driscoll Engr.
[Source: 1865-200001362@LoC/IHAS-CWM]

1. Where is my good old arm,
  For I wish to see’t once more:
My brave protecting true right arm,
  Again to me restore.
It has been in many a conflict,
  And in many a hard fought fight;
For our dear flag and the Union
  And for ev’ry cause that’s right.

CHORUS [sung after each VERSE]
Where is my good old arm,
For I wish to see’t once more;
My brave protecting true right arm,
Again to me restore.

2. In the ambush and the skirmish,
  And the sanguinary battle;
The booming of the cannon,
  And the musket’s quick sharp rattle.
It has struck a blow at traitors,
  Bid definance to their rag,
It has never yet dishonor’d
  Our dear Nation’s glorious flag.

3. So good bye! old arm! we’ve been
  For a long time friends together:
In battles, calm and storm.
  And in happy sunshine weather.
Farewell! for we must part now,
  From each other, yes, forever;
But you never fought against
  The glorious Stars and Stripes, so! never!

4. No carbine can I handle,
  No, nor sabre ever swing;
For the Government we’er bound to love,
  And down our foes to bring,
But I dont regret the loss,
  Although torn from off my side;
I resign you, for the Union
  That the States should not divide.

5. Although I am an invalid
  And cannot load my gun;
Still I can fight the Traitors,
  Yes, and from them, never run.
With the only one arm left,
  For I ever scorn to brag;
I will battle for the Union,
  And our Nation’s Starry Flag.

6. What, if the foreign powers,
  Should again’st us all combine;
I’ll always hold up our true flag,
  And proudly call it mine.
Then the North and South, united
  We will fight triumphantly,
For the Star Spangled Banner
  And the land of the Free!
