[Filed March 13, 1865]
Respectfully Dedicated
to
Chaplain C. C. McCabe,
General Agent for U. S. Christian Commission
"Good-by, Old Arm[!]" [13 Mar 1865]
A Pathetic Song and Chorus.

In a hospital in Nashville, a short time ago, a wounded hero was lying on the amputating
table, under the influence of chloroform.  They cut off his strong right arm, and cast it
up the pile of human limbs.  Then they laid him gently upon his couch.  He awoke
from stupor and missed his arm.  With his left hand he lifted the cloth, and there was
nothing but the gory stump!  "Where's my arm?" he cried. "Get my arm; I want to
see it once more-- my strong right arm!"  They brought it to him.  He took hold of the cold,
clammy fingers, and looking steadfastly at the poor dead member; thus addressed it with a tearful
earnestness: "Good-by, old arm!" We have been a long time together; we must part now!
Good-by old arm!  You'll never fire another carbine, nor swing another saber for the Govern-
ment!"  And the tears rolled down his cheeks.  He then said to those standing by: "Under-
stand, I don't regret its lost.  It has been torn from my body, that not one State should be torn
from this glorious UNION!"

Words by the Blind Poetess.
[Miss Fanny Jane Crosby,
aka Mrs. Frances Van Alstyne, 1820-1915]
Music by Philip Phillips.

Cincinniti, OH: John Church, Jr., 66 West Fourth Street
Chicago, IL: Lyon & Healy.
Boston, MA: Oliver Ditson & Co.
Philadelphia, PA: J. E. Gould.
Electrotyped at the Frankly Type Foundry, Cincinnati, O.
[M 1640
  .P]
[Sources: 1865-200001796@LoC/IHAS-CWM; civilwardigital.com;
NOTE: missing last page(s)]

NOTE: The source is missing the last measures of the chorus, and any other verses (if any). 
Another source from Civilwardigital.com's (32GB Flashdrive) "Civil War Music Special 
Collection" archive collection has been ordered [on 4/7/2013], to compare to, and hopefully 
to complete from. Regretably, they are the same -- i.e. no other pages are available.]


1. They bore him gently from the field,
His bleeding wound they dressed,
And kindly gave a soothing draught
To lull his pain to rest.
He knew the worst— that shattered arm
No skill could e’er restore;
He heard its doom— sleep came at last—
He felt, and heard no more. 

CHORUS 1 [incomplete]
Goodby, old arm— that strong right arm,
’Twas once my pride to wield;
’Twill
