Dedicated to to all writers of Mother Songs.
"Mother on the Brain" (1865)
(Comic Ballad)
As Sung By All the Mintstrel Bands.
Written and Composed by M. F. H. Smith

Brooklyn, NY: D. S. Holmes, 67 Fourth Street
[Source: 053/002@Levy]

1.
As you look at the songs that you see nowadays, 
The gentle word of Mother, will surely meet your gaze; 
In the parlor, on the street, or on the battle plain. 
Ev’ry body seems to have­­ Mother on the brain.

CHORUS [sung after each verse]
Oh, Mother, Mother, the truth is very plain, 
That evry body seems to have­­ Mother on the brain.

2. 
And as the mania’s so contagious, 
I’ve just made up my mind 
That a few of all the Mother Songs, in verse I would unwind; 
So listen all who wish to hear, my feeble rhyming strain, 
While I sing to you a song of Mother on the brain.

3. 
There’s “Who will care for Mother now“ since “Johnny’s gone away,”
“Mother is the battle over, and have we gained the day?”
“Break it gently to my Mother,” “Mother I’ll come home again,”
“Kiss my Mother dear for me,” with Mother on the brain.

4. 
“Write a letter to my Mother, in a garret near the sky,
“Is that Mother bending o’er me?” “Bless me Mother ere I die;”
“What is home without a Mother,” in the cottage on the plain,
“I'm lonely since my Mother died,” with Mother on the brain.

5. 
O, “Mother dear would comfort me,” if she were only hear,
“Fond Mother thou art failing now,” “My gentle Mother dear,”
“I cannot mind my wheel, Mother,” it must be I’m insane,
For “Mother kissed me in my dream,” with Mother on my brain.

6. 
“In dreams I’ve seen my Mother,” on mem’rs golden shore,
“I’ll ne’er forget thee Mother,” nor “The ring my Mother wore,”
“Tell me Mother can I go,” I ask you once again,
“Mother dear sing me to rest,” with Mother on the brain.

7. 
“Let me kiss him for his Mother,” “Give this to Mother” too,
And “Kiss me goodnight Mother,” for I’m thinking most of you;
“I have a gentle Mother,” her name is “Mary Blane,”
“Mother dearest I am coming,” with Mother on the brain.

8. 
“Rock me to sleep my Mother,” as in the days of yore,
“Mother’s waiting for the news,” from the far off seat of war;
“Mother come, your boy is dying,” do not his call disdain,
A “Mother’s love is ever true,” with Mother on the brain.

9. 
“O, Mother watch the little feet,” and raise a “Mother’s prayer,”
“Mother when the war is over,” “I will for my Mother care;”
“I am leaving home dear Mother,” tho’ it causes me much pain,
Then “Mother give your boy a kiss,”­­ I’ve Mother on the brain.

10. 
“Just before the battle Mother,” “Mother dear O pray for me,”
“The song my Mother loved to sing,” “Mother can this the glory be;”
“It was Mother’s voice,” went “Singing through the rain,”
“Dear Mother I’ve come home to die” with Mother on the brain.
