The Original Song, as Sung by the Boys in Blue in Sherman’s Army.
"Sherman's
March to the Sea." (1865)
Written and Composed in Prison, at Columbia, South Carolina,
and Dedicated to the Army of the Union.
Song and Chorus
Music by
Lieut. J. O. Rockwell,
Words by
Lieut. S. H. M. Byers.
Arranged by A. E. Wimmerstedt.

Chicago, IL: H. M. Higgins, 117 Randolph St.
[Source: 089/169@Levy]

1. Our campfire shone bright on the mountains
  That frown’d on the river below,
While we stood by our guns in the morning
  And eagerly watch’d for the foe,
When a rider came out from the darkness,
  That hun over mountain and tree,
CHORUS [repeated twice]
And shouted “boys, up and be ready,
  For Sherman will march to the sea.”

2. Then cheer upon cheer, for bold Sherman,
  Went up from each valley and glen,
And the bugles reechoed the music
  That came from the lips of the men;
For we knew that the stars on our banner
  More bright in their splendor would be,
CHORUS [repeated twice]
And that blessings from Northland would greet us
  When Sherman marched down to the sea.

3. Then forward, boys, forward to battle
  We marched on our wearisome way,
And we stormed the wild hills of Resacca—
  God bless those who fell on that day:
Then Kennesaw, dark in its glory,
  Frowned down on the flag of the free;
CHORUS [repeated twice]
But the East and the West bore our standards,
  And Sherman marched on to the sea.

4. Still onward we pressed, till our banner
  Swept out from Atlanta’s grim walls,
And the blood of the patriot dampaned
  The soil where the traitor flag falls;
But we passed not to weep for the fallen,
  Who slept by each river and tree,
CHORUS [repeated twice]
Yet we twined them a wreath of the laurel
  As Sherman marched down to the sea.

5. O, proud was our army that morning,
  That stood where the pine proudly towers,
When Sherman said “boys, you are weary;
  This day fair Savannah is ours!”
Then sang we a song for our chieftian,
  That echoed o’er river and lea,
CHORUS [repeated twice]
And the stars in our banner shone brighter,
  When Sherman marched down to the sea.
