"The Chelsea War Widow" (23 Sep 1865)
Sung with great applause by
Charles Pettengill
at the Morris Bros. Pell & Trowbridg’s Opera House.
[Deposited September 23rd 1865;
Recorded Vol. 40, Page 693, No. 174]
[Copyright Library Feb 1866;
M1640.P]
Poetry by St. John
[Music by Charles Pettengill]

Boston: Oliver Ditson & Co., 877 Washington St.
H. F. Greene, Engraver
Plate No. 22850
[Source: 1865-200001791@LoC/IHAS/CWS]

1. To all yon young men my advice I give free,
Whenever a pretty war wddow you see,
Take warning by one who was caught in a snare,
And of all the war widows I tell you beware,
As I went out walking one fine afternoon,
Down Tremont thro’ Court to Brighams saloon,
I turned round the corner and who should I meet,
But a Lady just coming up Hanover street.

2. She was dressed in deep black costing hundreds or more,
And I know by her face that I’d seen her before.
And as she approached me in true Boston style,
I took off my hat and just gave her a smile.
She says “my dear sir, you’re a stranger to me,”
Says I “my dear madam offended don’t be!
Although quite a stranger to you I may seem,
Will you step into Copelands and take an ice cream.”

3. At first she refused but soon gave her consent,
Then straintway to Copelands together we went,
She said she’d been walking and felt very weak,
And instead of a Cream she would take a Beef Steak.
We chatted and talked as we sat there together
About all sorts of things and the changeable weather,
She said that her husband had gone to the war;
But was formerly Conductor on a Chelsea Horse Car.

4. She said that she lived on his Bounty alone
And over in Chelsea she had a nice home.
Thinks I to myself you are dressed very gay,
He must be a Captain and draw Extra Pay.
She finished her steak at a two forty rate,
Then said she must go as ’twas getting quite late,
I offered my arm she quick gave her consent,
Then down to the ferry together we went.

5. The boat had just gone so we stood arm in arm,
Awaiting the next and thinking no harm
When up stepped a Ruffian and threatened my life
He asked me what business I had with his wife.
“Your wife my Dear Sir,” that was all that I said
When he drew a revolver and placed at my head
Says he “now prepare, for as sure as I speak,”—
(This story will be continued in the Ledger Next week.)