[Deposited July 29, 1865
Recorded. Vol. 40. Page 557. No. 72.]
To the
Brave Volunteers
returning from the war
"The
Soldier Coming Hiome" [29 Jul 1865]

"I'm coming dear father,
The battle is o'er,
Wait my footsteps at meal-time,
Spread another plate more,
Set a chair by the door-side,
For I'm weary and sore,
I'm coming dear father,
The battle is o'er."

Words & Music by
H. M. Slade.

Boston, MA: OLIVER DITSON & CO., 277 Washington St.
Cinn.: J. Church Jr.
N. York: W. A. Pond & Co.
Chicago: Lyon & Healy.
Boston: J. C. Haynes & Co.
Phla.: C. W. A. Trumpler.
[30052]
[COPYRIGHT
Feb 1866
LIBRARY]
[M 1640
  .S]
[Plate no.] 22761
[Source: 1865-200001982@LoC/IHAS-CWM]

1. Dear father the battle so fearful and grand,
That has shook all the nation and moistened the land
With the blood of her patriots, is finished and won,
And I’m coming to greet you with the loved one’s at home.

CHORUS 1
I’m coming dear father the battle is o’er
Wait my footsteps at meal time spread another plate more,
Set a chair by the door side for I’m weary and sore,
I’m coming dear father the battle is o’er.

2. Dear mother thy darling has fought the good fight
For the flag of the Union and the cause of the right,
But no more will be tread, to the shrill fife and drum,
For the conflict is over and the battle is won.

CHORUS 2
Thy darling is coming the battle is o’er
Wait his warm kiss at meal time; spread another plate more,
Set a chair by the door side, for he’s weary and sore,
Thy darling is coming the battle is o’er.

3. As the camp fire burns, in its flickering light,
I’ll be dreaming of thee, my sweet sister, to night,
Of how, with thy soft hand pressed warm in his own,
You will look a warm welcome when your brother comes home.

CHORUS 3
For thy brother is coming, the battle is o’er,
Wait his footsteps at meal time at the old homestead door,
Put a rose by his plate side as in past days of yore,
For thy brother is coming, the battle is o’er.

4. On my breast there is hanging a picture so fair,
Of my bonnie blue eyed love with bright auburn hair,
In the midst of the conflict a refuse from harm,
I’ve worn its soft image my trust and my charm.

CHORUS 4
But I’m coming dear loved one, the battle is o’er,
In the lane by the hill side wait my foot steps once more
’Neath the shade of the maples where we’ve wandered before,
Oh wait for my coming, for the battle is o’er.
