To the memory of My Friend, 
The gallant Soldier and patriotic American Citizen, 
Col. Samuel Nye Yeoman.

"Old Glory" (1896)
Song and Chorus.
Words by Willis Pine. 
Music by Prue Robinson.

Cincinnati: The John Church Company
Plate Number: 11689-5-T
Call No.: Box: 086 Item: 067

1. What banner is that in the thickest of battle, 
It is scorched by fire and by shot and shell torn, 
’Mid the roar of the cannon and musketries rattle, 
Hark the cheers of the heroes by whom it is borne, 
’Tis the Star spangled Banner, “Old Glory” we call her, 
She’s the pride and the boast of Americans true 
And while patriots live no harm shall befall her 
With her forty five stars and her red, white and blue.

CHORUS [sung after each verse]
Then fling out Old Glory and swell high  the chorus, 
She’s the noblest, the grandest, the world ever saw, 
And no foeman we fear while Old Glory floats o’er us, 
Old Glory forever, Old Glory hurrah.

2. See our beautiful Goddess the Queen of all Nations, 
Columbia, the light and the hope of the world 
We worship her ever with fond adoration 
While above her is floating Old Glory unfurled, 
Her throne is the heart of each patriot freeman, 
She’s the mother beloved of Americans true 
In her cause ev°ry man is a soldier or seaman 
And her emblem Old Glory the red, white and blue.

3. Just off our South Shore, lies a beautiful Island,
Her brave sons for aid and for sympathy plead.
In their struggle for freedom, they are gallantly fighting,
And every American hopes they’ll succeed.
Poor Cuba writhes under the lash of oppression,
And her life blood she’s shedding for sweet liberty.
Uncle Sam should accord her a prompt recognition.
She’s our brave little sister and deserves to be free.

4. It is said that John Bull has his eye upon Cuba,
And that unhappy Island he is ready to buy.
And that Spain is quite anxios to sell it out to him.
She can hold it no longer, ’tis useless to try;
He also demands a large slice of Venezuela.
But in both of these matters he had better go slow.
His presence so near us would endanger Old Glory,
And Uncle Sam can’t and won’t stand it your know.

5. Mister John Bull, you have surely forgotten
The troubles you had with us some time ago.
You’ve forgotten our Washington, Paul Jones and old Hick’ry.
Did you ne’er hear the doctrine of our great James Monroe?
We’ll run up Old Glory if you don’t quit your fooling.
We’ll call out a small squad of a million or two,
And we’ll give you some more of the same kind of schooling
That you’ve had twice before from the red, white and blue.
