"Break The News To Mother" [1897]
by Cha[rle]s. K[assel]. Harris [1865-1930]

   This song was originally
published in 1897 during the
Spanish American War, when
it was virtually taken up and
sung by the entire nation.
   The Author and Composer
Mr. Chas. K. Harris who is also
the Author of the world's famous
song "After the Ball", since the
outbreak of the present war, has
been beseiged by requests for
copies of this onetime famous
song, the human heart-appeal
of which has kept it alive for
these many years.
  In response to this appeal
he has issued this new edition.
   The song remains unchanged
with the exception of the title
page and will undoubtably take
its palce as an immortal classic
with such songs as "Home Sweet
Home" and "The Vacant Chair".

Published by
CHAS. K. HARRIS
New York -- Chicago -- Toronto
[Source: 1897-MUM00682_328]

1. While the shot and shell were screaming upon the battle field;—
The boys in blue were fighting their noble flag to shield;—
Came a cry from their brave captain, “Look boys! our flag is down;—
Who’ll volunteer to save it from disgrace?”
“I will,” a young voice shouted, “I’ll bring it back to life;”
Then sprang into the thicket of the fray;
Saved the flag but gave his young life; all for his country’s sake.
They brought him back and softly heard him say

CHORUS [sung after each VERSE]
“Just break the news to mother,
She knows how dear I love her,
And tell her not to wait for me,
For I’m not coming home;
Just say there is no other
Can take the place of mother;
Then kiss her dear, sweet lips for me,
And break the news to her.”

2. From afar a noted general had witnessed this brave deed.—
“Who saved our flag? speak up lads, ’twas noble, brave, indeed!”—
“There he lies, sir,” said the captain, “he’s sinking very fast;”—
Then slowly turned away to hide a tear.
The general in a momont, knelt down beside the boy;
Then gave a cry that touch’d all hearts that day.
It’s my son, my brave young hero; I though you safe at home.“
“Forgive me, father, for I ran away.”
