"Old Glory" (1898)
 A Patriotic War Song and Chorus.
Words and Music Composed by W.B. Hale.

Fort Worth, Texas: Fort Worth Music Co.
[Source:: 086/066@Levy]

1. Of all the mighty nations of the east, of the west, 
This American Republic is the greatest and the best, 
She is patient, she is merciful and slow to anger too, 
But when you get her aner up you’ve something then to do.

CHORUS [sung after each verse]
Then rally boys, rally boys, Old Glory is unfurled, 
Rally ’round the greatest of all banners in the world, 
Come fall into the soldiers’ ranks, form one united band, 
And we’ll drive the Spanish army from the sea and from the land.

2. Not satisfied with butchery in their own Cuban land, 
The Spaniards tried their hand on the men of Uncle Sam, 
In February ninety-eight when the moon was on the wane, 
With their treacherous devices they  blew up the Maine. 

3. Two hundred as brave men as ever sailed the sky,
Were sons to watery graves in the twinkling of an eye,
And then the fire of wrath flamed as high as the sun,
And we declared that we must have just a thousand men for one.

4. On San Jacinto day it was that Spain got up her back,
When she spatied Woodford in the face and sent him sailing back,
Uncle Sam saw the jig was up, that we would have to fight,
So he let the other business slide and worked both day and night.

5. The call to arms was answered from all this wide domain,
With the battle cry of Freedom and “Remember the Maine,”
From Maine to California, from Texas to Washington,
The boys are marching to the music of the bugle and the drum.

6. They may talk about our Navy, they may say that we are small,
But listen to our thunder, then see the Temples fall,
Just see the Spanish Castles as they crumble into dust,
Then see the Spanish Ships go down, to rust.

7. We have Battle Ships and Gunboats and Cruisers every where,
With the bravest men to handle them that ever breathed the air.
There’s Dewey, Schley, and Sampson all masters of the deep,
While Watson minds the skeeters off and lets Havana sleep.

8. Dick Sanddige at the fire of the Indiana’s guns,
Mark Ellis on the Hornet they’re having lots of fun,
Brave Hobson in the channel of the Santiago Bay,
The Merimac’s hero, the hero of the day.

9. Long live the sires that wore the blue and those that wore the gray,
For their sons are side by side today all marching to the fray,
No North or South with them today, no East and West to brag,
But in Cuba they all will take a hand when they plant that good old flag.

10. And when the war is over and the boys come marching home,
They’ll meet the friends and loved ones and tell of what was done,
But those who fail to answer and are laid beneath the sod,
May “Old Glory” be their winding sheet and their souls return to God.
