Latest Picanninny Lullaby by the Author of
"My Honolulu Lady" * * * 50,000 Copies Already Sold
"Mammy's Carolina Twins" (1899)
(Southern Lullaby)
As sung by The Bachelor Club with great success
Words and Music by Lee Johnson

San Francisco: Lee Johnson & Co., 41 Geary St.
Griggs: Engraver and Printer, Fruitvale. 
[Source: ucbm00016600@UCB]

1.
It was down in South Car'lina
Where the Southern moon was shining,
And the mocking birds sing sweetly in the trees;
In an ivy-cover'd cottage
Whar de honeysuckle's creeping,
Lives Aunt Jennie and her Carolina Twins.
It was four o'clock dat morning,
When de roosters, they were crowing,
And de silv'ry moon had gone to rest;
It was dar dem twins were born,
Just befo' de break of dawn,
In dere mama's Southern nest.

CHORUS [sung afte each verse]
Go to sleep ma Carolina Twins,
While mammy Jennie sings this lullaby;
Now close your eyes and cover up your hands,
The bogie man will catch you if you cry.
Next Sunday morn the bells will sweetly chime,
The coon and wenches, they will fall in line,
They'll dance and sing,
The bells will ring,
For mammy's Carolina Twins.
[D. C. or DANCE]

PICANNINY DANCE. ad. lib. _Hum with closed lips._
[sung after each CHORUS]
Um-um, um-um.
Um-um, um-um.
Um-um, um-um.
Um-um, um-um.
Mammy's Carolina Twins.

2.
Don't you cry ma pickaninnies,
Go to sleep and I will watch you,
Ain't you 'fraid that I will call de bogie man?
Or you'll find that he will catch you,
Den your mamy'll loose her Carolina Twins.
Hush yo', hush my little honeys,
I will wake you in de morning,
When de mocking birds their sweet songs sing.
Now you mind what I have said,
And you cover up you heads,
Now goodnight my baby twins.

NOTE-- This songc can be introduced with good affect by having
two baby pickaninnies in cradle or baby carriage. Take smallest
baby in arms if you use humming part after chorus. "Baby-cry"
and "slap-stick" used in orchestra in 3rd, 4th, 7th, 8th, 11th
and 14th bars, to imitate baby crying and whipping arms, if
humming part after chorus is used.
