The Tremaine Brothers' Popular Song
"Rally for the Union" (1862)
As Sung by them nightly with unbounded applause
at Dr. Colton's Exhibitions.
Song and Chorus.
Words by C. M. Tremaine.
Music: anonymous.
Arranged for the Piano
by Septimus Winner, 1827-1902

[Source: 089/135@Levy;
Philadelphia: Lee & Walker.
Plate No. 8645.4]

1.
Our army now is marching on, Southward, Southward!
To save our Union once so strong, In good old days of yore,
It will disperse the rebel band In a few days, a few days,
And drive out treason from our land, Forever, evermore.

CHORUS
Then rally boys for the good old Union, Union, Union;
Rally boys for the good old Union,
It must and shall be saved.

2.
Our Union is the watchword now, Union, Union!
To Union all our patriots bow, And Liberty's at home,
Secession mania will go down In a few days, a few days,
For Yankee Doodle's come to town And Jeff will have to roam.

(CHORUS)

3.
There's a few seceshers up here yet, That's so! That's so!
But we've got a Fort, called Lafayette, That's so too,
Where all are Put who believe the creed Rebellion, Rebellion,
From which they'll find they can't secede, If Southern rebels do.

(CHORUS)

4.
Ther's Gen'ral [Wiserns?] doughty Knight In Dixie, in Dixie!
On Roanoke was ready quite, for Burnside's Yankee Crew,
But when at last the fight began, Oh! Gen'ral! Oh Gen'ral!
You cut and run but left your men, To fight the battle through.

(CHORUS)

5.
Floyd is a valliant man they say, In Dixie In Dixie!
To save his neck, he ran away From Fort Donelson.
Pillow followed in the chase, For safety! for safety!
And Buckner changed his watering place, Glory Hallelujah!

(CHORUS)

6.
Now Uncle Sam had got the Dimes, That's so, that's so!
Gen'ral Mc'Clellan is the man for the times, That's so too!
So with all our money and plenty of men, for Freedom! for Freedom!
I tell you boys, we'er bound to win, Cotton is not king!

CHORUS for LAST VERSE
Glory, glory, Hallelujah!
Glory, glory, Hallelujah!
Glory, glory, Hallelujah!
Our Army's marching on.
