"The Sister's Prayer" (1874)
Temperance Ballad, with Chorus.

                      She Prayed Alone.

  Incident. -- Last night at a late hour the inmates of a saloon
were startled by the plaintive prayers of a woman outside.  They
opened the door, and there, kneeling close to the doorway, her
eyes toward heaven, her voice so sweet and gentle, was the only
sister of one of the young men inside.  She heeded not their
gaze, but continued to pour out her soul, so full of love and
tenderness, that the stern men who beheld her were moved to
tears.  She prayed for God to send her sainted mother back to
earth to save the son and only brother from utter ruin.  Angels
were asked to help. God was implored to be merciful to the
erring.  The words of the fair creature, as they floated off on
the still midnight air, seemed to hold the hearer as by a spell.
Rough men, boisterous with wine and beer, paused as they passed
the spot where the fair one prayed, and were silent.  When the
maiden lowered her voice to--"And now, kind Father, we beseech
thee to be with us at all times, and to lead us into those paths
in which thou wouldst have us walk," she was joined by all pres-
ent in an earnest "Amen."

Words and Music by Mark Mason
[pseud. of Septimus Winner, 1827-1902]

[Source: 099/019@Levy; 05307@LoC [21 May 1875];
Burlington, VT: Edward M. Read;
Copyright filed in 1874 by J. M. Stoddart & Co.]

1.
Stay not out to-night, dear brother,
  Let thy footsteps follow mine;
Homeward let us turn together;
  Come, and leave the tempting wine.
Though the cup be bright and rosy,
  Let it hold no charm for thee;
Do not hesitate, dear brother,
  Come, oh! come, I pray, with me.

CHORUS
Keep with me tonight, dear brother,
  Do not tarry long and late,
'Tis so sad to be without you,
  'Tis so lonely there to wait.

2.
Stay not out to-night, I pray thee,
  Let thy comrades wait in vain,
I will be thy best companion;
  Let me ask you not again.
If you knew how sad and lonely
  Were the hours to linger through,
You would not, perhaps, refuse me;
  Come with me, dear brother, do.

(CHORUS)

3.
Gently fell her kind persuasion
  On the brother's heavy heart---
Tarrying without resistance,
  With a spirit loth to part.
Tearful eyes of that fond sister,
  Pleading at the open door,
Touched at last the erring brother,
  For her prayers had won him o'er.

(CHORUS)
