No. 19 from "The Sylviad,"
"The Log House, a Sylvan Bravura" (Sep 1825)
Words by John Mills Brown
Music by Anthony Philip Heinrich, 1781-1861

Boston: A. P. Heinrich & G. Graupner
[Source: pp. 209-310 from the Conners Publication
(reprint, 1996) of "The Sylviad]

Far  in the West and endless wood 
Sighs to the rushing Cataracts flood! 
’Twas there an humble loghouse stood 
To fame unknown 
There first, lov’d minstrelsy 
I woo’d and woo’d alone. 
Far in the West an endless wood 
Sighs to the rushing Cat’ract’s flood! 
’Twas there a humble loghouse stood 
To fame unknown; 
There first, lov’d minstrelsy I wood’d, 
There first, lov’d minstrelsy I woo’d, 
There first, loved minstrelsy I woo’d, 
And woo’d alone. 
And woo’d, 
And woo’'d 
And wood’d 
And wo’d, alone. 
The thund’ring fall! the thund’ring fall! the bubling stream 
Murm’ring midst stones and roots between; 
Were nature’s whispers for some theme, 
Were nature’s whispers for some theme 
T’inspire my lay, t’inspire my lay, 
Trilling arpeggios thro’ my dream, thro’ my dream 
With wild sweet play 
with wild with wild with wild with wild sweet play, 
With wild sweet play. 
Thro’ gloom and mists, thro gloom and mists, 
Heavens glorious bow, 
Hope, bursting gleamd her sunny brow, 
Riding the wild wood Minstrel go 
Far to the East; far to the East; 
And care less scatter midst her glow 
his forest feast, his forest feast. 
He came a wand’ring, wand’ring, wayward Child; 
A native flower, free and wild; 
With ardour fierce! with feelings mild; with feelings mild; 
’Tis Genius boon. 
’Tis Genious boon. 
Then dwept his Minstrel Lyre and smiled, 
for fear had flown, had flown. 
He came— He came— a wand’ring, wayward Child' 
a wand’ring, wayward Child; 
A Native flower. free and wild; 
With ardour fierce with feelings mild; 
With ardour fierce! with feelings mild; 
with feelings mild; With ardour fierce! 
With ardour fierce; With ardour fierce! 
With ardour fierce! With ardour fierce! 
with feelings mild; with feelings mild; 
with feelings mild; With ardour fierce! 
With ardour fierce! With ardour fierce! 
with feelings  mild; With ardour fierce! 
With feelings mild; 
with feelings with feelings with feekings mild; 
fierce! mild, fierce! mild, fierce! mild; 
’Tis Genius’ boon, ’Tis Genious’ boon, 
’Tis Genious’, ’Tis Genious’, ’Tis Genious’, 
’Tis Genious’s, ’Tis Genious’ boon, 
’Tis Genious’ boon, ’Tis Genious’ boon, Genius’ boon. 
Then swept his Minstrel Lyre— 
Then swept his Minstrel Lyre— and  smil’d 
For fear had flown, and smil’d; 
For fear had flown, fear fear had flown, 
fear fear had flown, fear had flown, fear had flown, 
fear had flown/
 He came— He came— a wand’ring a wand’ring wayward Child 
He came a wand’ring wayward Child; 
A Native flower, free and wild; 
With ardour fierce! with feelings mild; 
’Tis Genious’ boon. 
Then swept his Minstrel Lyre and smil’d; 
For fear had flown. 
Then swept his Minstrel Lyre and smil’d; 
For fear had flown, had flown, had flown, 
had flown. had flown. flown had flown.

