To Albert F. Pike, Esq., the Poet-Lawyer of Arkansas.
"The Bonnie Blue Flag" (1861)
A Southern Patriotic Song,
Written, Arranged, and Sung at his "Personation Concerts,"
by Harry Macarthy,
The Arkansas Comedian

1.
We are a band of brothers,
And native to the soil,
Fighting for our Liberty,
With treasure, blood, and toil;
And when our rights were threaten'd,
The cry rose near and far,
Hurrah for the Bonnie Blue Flag, that bears a Single Star!

CHORUS
Hurrah! Hurrah! for Southern Rights Hurrah!
Hurrah! for the Bonnie Blue Flag that bears a Single Star!

2.
As long as the Union was faithful to her trust,
Like friends and like bretheren kind were we and just;
But now when Northern treachery attempts our rights to mar,
We hoist the Bonnie Blue Flag that bears a Single Star.

(CHORUS)

3.
First, gallant South Carolina, nobly made the stand;
Then came Alabama, who took her by the hand;
Next, quickly Mississippi, Georgia and Florida,
All rais'd on high the Bonnie Blue Flag that bears a Single Star!

(CHORUS)

4.
Ye men of valor, gather round the Banner of the Right,
Texas and fair Louisana, join us in fight;
Davis, our loved President, and Stephens, Stateman rare,
Now rally round the Bonnie Blue Flag that bears a Single Star.

(CHORUS)

5.
And hear's to brave Virginia! the Old Dominion State
With the young Confederacy at length has link'd her fate;
Impell'd by her example, now other State[s] prepare
To hoist on high the Bonnie Blue Flag that bears a Single Star.

(CHORUS)

6.
Then cheer, boys, raise the joyous shout,
For Arkansas and North Carolina now have both gone out;
And let another rousing cheer for Tennessee be given
To Single Star of the Bonnie Blue Flag has grown to be Eleven.

(CHORUS)

7.
Then here's to Confederacy, strong we are and brave,
Like patriots of old, we'll fight our heritage to save;
And rather than submit to shame, to die we would prefer,
So cheer for the Bonnie Blue Flag that bears a Single Star.

CHORUS
Hurrah! Hurrah! for Southern Rights Hurrah!
Hurrah! for the Bonnie Blue Flag has gain'd th' Eleventh Star!
