"O Come You from the Battle-Field?" (1864)
by George Frederick Root
A Dialogue Duett for Soprano (in roman) and Tenor (italic.)

1.[Mother]
"O come you from the batte-field, and soldier can tell
A bout--tho gallant Twentieth, and who are safe and well?
Oh, soldier! say my son is safe, for he is all my care,
And you shall have a mother's thanks, a widow'd mother's grave."

2.[Soldier]
"Oh I've come from the battle-field, I've come right from the war,
And well I know the Twentieth, and gallant lads they are--
From colonel to rank and file, I know my comrades well,
And news I've brought for you good dame, your Robert bade me tell."

DUETT
O! happy, happy meeting,
At home, at home once more,
Give joyful, joyful greeting,
All sorrows now are o'er.

3.[Mother]
"And do you know my Robert now? O tell me, tell me true--
Oh! soldier tell us word for word, all that he said to you--
His very words, my own boy's words, O tell me eve-ry one!
You little know how dear to his old mother is her son."

4.[Soldier]
"Well dame, he saved the colonel's life, And bravely it was done;
his dispatch they told it all, and nam'd and prais'd you son;
A medal and a pension's his--good luck to him I say,
And he has not a comrade but will wish him well today."

(DUETT)

5.[Mother]
"Now soldier, blessings on you tongue; O Robert could you know
How well I am repaid this day for all that I've gone through--
For all I've done, and all I've borne the long years past and dead!
But soldier, tell me how he look'd, and all my Robert said."

6.[Soldier]
"He's bronz'd, and tanned, and bearded, and you'd harldy know him, dame;
We've made your boy into a man, but yet his heart's the same;
For often still he talks of you, and always to one tune--
But there, I will not tell you more, for he'll be with you soon."

(DUETT)

7.[Mother]
"Oh! is he really coming home--and shall I really see
My boy again, my own boy home--and when, when will it be?
Did you say soon? [Soldier]"Well he is home, keep cool old dame he's here!"
[Mother]"Oh Robert, my own bless-ed boy." [Soldier]"O, mother, mother dear."
