[on cover page: "Songs of the Soiree
Being a collection of Original Ballads"]
"Our Hearts Are With Our Native Land" (1836)
Song of the American Girl
Being No. 1 [of 10] of "Songs of the Soiree"
Written & Composed by
John Hill Hewitt, 1801-1890

[Source: 042/105a]

                            PREFACE.

  At the suggestion of a number of friends, the author of this
work was induced to present the public with a collection of
Ballads entirely original and strictly American, though
partaking separately of the _character_ and _style_ of
fashionable European productions. The generous favor extended
to his former productions, has mainly prompted him to this
bold step; and though he anticipates a full share of criticism,
yet, he would consider it kindly dealt were it unbiased and
governed by honesty. Our mountains and our valleys, our rivers
and our wild-woods, are melodious with the music of nature--
the spirit of poetry dwells every where, and the songs of our
own Native Land may loose nothing of their sweetness because
these beautiful productions of nature gave birth to the
inspiration which prompted them. The author is a native born
American--his "heart is with his native land," and if his
humble productions add any thing to the literary and musical
reputation of his country, he will feel amply compensated in
the gratification of having them sung by the "American girls,"
to whom he acknowledges his gratitude for the unlooked-for
encouragement their gentle smiles have given him in his former
efforts.
  It will be observed that the accompaniments, generally
speaking, are simple, and that the melodies partake of a
variety of styles--Simplicity and effect were the two prime
objects of the composer; he had more reasons than one for
consulting them. Some irregularity may be detected in the
poetry of the ballads; this occurs in cases where the melody
was composed first, and words adapted accordingly.
                                                THE AUTHOR.

1.
Our hearts are with the native land,
Our song is for her glory;
Her warrior's wreath is in our hand,
Our lips breathe out her story.
Her lofty hills and valleys green
Are smiling bright before us,
And like a rainbow sign is seen,
Her proud flag waving o'er us,
  And like a rainbow is seen
  Her proud flag waving o'er us.

2.
And there are smiles upon our lips
For those who met her foeman,
For Glory's star knows no eclipse
When smiled upon by woman.
For those who brave the mighty deep,
And scorn the threat of danger,
We've smiles to cheer--and tears to weep
For every ocean ranger.
  We've smiles to cheer--and tears to weep
  For every ocean ranger.

3.
Our hearts are with our native land,
Our song is for her freedom;
Our prayers are for the gallant band
Who strike where honor'll lead 'em.
We love the taintless air we breathe,
Tis freedom's endless dower,
We'll twine for him a fadeless wreath
Who scorns a tyrant's power.
  We'll twine for him a fadeless wreath
  Who scorns a tyrant's power.

4.
The tell of France's beauties rare,
Of Italy's proud daughters;
Of Scotland's lasses--England's fair,
And nymphs of Shannon's waters;
We heed not all their boasted charms,
Though lords around them hover;--
Our glory lies in Freedom's arms;--
A Freeman for a lover!
  Our glory lies in Freedom's arms;--
  A Freeman for a lover!
