Respectfully dedicated to the estimable wife of President Tyler,
and the other patriotic and Union loving Ladies of Virginia, who
so justly rebuked Lady Sutherland and the Ladies of England for
their uncalled for meddling in the affairs of the people of the
United States.

"Aunt Harriet Becha Stowe" (1853)
[Harriet Becha Stowe, 1811-1896]
Written Esprefsly for
Kinkle's Nightingale Opera Troupe
by Charles Soran, Esq. 1809-1857.
Music by John Hill Hewitt, 1801-1890

1.
I went to New York city a month or two ago,
A hunting for dat lady, Aunt Harriet Becha Stowe;
I see'd de Abolitions dey said shed gone away,
Dey told me in de city it was no use to stay.

She take away de dollars, and put 'em in her packet,
She laid her hand upon it, and dar she safely lock it,
Dey said if Massa come for me, den dey would quickly meet,
Dey'd make a lion of me, and gib me 'nuf to eat.

CHORUS
Oh! Oh! Oh! Aunt Harriet Becha Stowe!
How could you leave de Country and sarve poor nigga so.

2.
Dey treated dis here child, as doe I was a Turk,
Den tole me for to leave dem and go away to work;
I couldn't get no work, I couldn't get no dinner,
And den I wish dis Fugitive was back to ole Virginny,

Oh! when I was a picanin, Ole Uncle Tom would say,
Be true unto your Massa, and neber run away,
He tole me dis at home, he tole me dis at partin',
Ned, don't you trust de whitefolks, For dey am quite unsartin.

(CHORUS)

3.
Ole Massa's very kind ole Missu's gentle too,
And much I love my Dinah in ole Viginny true,
Now I'll go back and stay dar, and neber more will roam
Lor bress de Southern Ladies, and my ole southern home.

But dont come back Aunt Harriet in England make a fuss,
Go talk against your Country, put money in you puss
And when us happy niggers you pity in your prayer,
Oh! dont forget de _WHITE_ _SLAVES_ dat starvin ober dare!

(CHORUS)

4.
Now de rules of dis here house don't 'mit of an encore,
So a fore we go just listen, I'll sing you one verse more;
Aunt Harriet Becha Stowe, She tried to see de Queen,
But Victoria was too smart for her and could not be see.

She den went o'er to France, and tried to come it dere
But de Empress and de Emperor, know'd 'xatly what dey were,
So de best way to fix it and hab it understood,
Is dat she left her Country for her own country's good.

CHORUS
Go go go Aunt Harriet Becha Stowe!
I'se glad you left de Country and dont come back no more.
