Respectfully Dedicated to the Army & Navy of the C. S. A.
"Farewell to the Star Spangled Banner" (circa 1861; [1862])
[Words by Mrs. Ellen Dowdell Hundley, 1861]
Arranged for Piano Forte & Guitar
Arranged for Guitar by A. G....t

Richmond, VA: J. W. Davies & Sons, 188 Main St.
E. Crehen, Lithographer
[Source: conf0181@Duke; see below lyrics]

1. Let tyrants and slaves submissively tremble
And bow down necks 'neath the juggernaut car;
But brave men will rise in the strength of a nation,
And cry give me freedom
Or else give me my war.

CHORUS [sung after every verse]
Farewell forever the Star spangled banner
No longer shall wave o'er the land of the free,
But we'll unfurl to the broad breeze of Heaven
Thirteen bright stars round the Palmetto tree.

2. We honor, yes honor, bold South Carolina,
  Though small she may be, she's as brave as the best
With flag-ship of State, she's out on the ocean
  Buffetting the waves of a dark billow's crest.

3. We honor, yes honor, our seceding Sisters
  We launched this brave bark alone on the sea,
Though storms may howl and thunder distraction,
  We'll hurl to the blast the proud Palmetto tree.

4. And when to the confict the others cry onward,
  Virginia will be first to rush to the fight,
She'll break down the iceburg of Northern coercion,
  And rise in her glory of Freedom and right.

5. When the fifteen Sisters in bright constellation,
  Shall dazzling shine in a nation's emblem sky;
With no hands to oppose, nor foes to oppress them,
  They will shine there forever, a light to every eye.

[NOTE: the following info is from the poetess' great great
grandchildren:]

Farewell to the Star Spangled Banner

 

         To the Editor of the Dispatch:

In answer to the enquiry for a copy of the song, "Farewell to 
the Star Spangled Banner." I send an original copy, as published 
by my father, John W. Davies, 1862.  At that time the author of 
the words was not known, but later Mrs. Ellen D. Hundley (who in 
April 16, 1896, resided at Greensboro, NC), made herself known, 
and approved and corrected the publication.    

                                    W.W. Davies

___________________

 

A Noted Southern Song

"Farewell to the Star Spangled Banner," and its History

Greensboro, NC,  April 16, 1896

To the Editor of the Dispatch:

     I noticed in last Sunday's Dispatch, under the caption 
of "Confederate Songs Wanted," the request to publish again, 
"Farewell, Forever, to the Star Spangled Banner," an old war 
song, very frequently sung during our late conflict.  As you 
wish a copy of the same, I take the liberty of sending it.  
The song has been many times recopied of late years, but 
always from a garbled copy, which happened in this way:  I 
wrote the verses on the spur of the moment to a friend in 
Missouri, near the Kansas line, in reply to a letter deploring 
the approach of war, and gushing with enthusiasm over the Star 
Spangled Banner.  My production found its way into the columns 
of the Richmond Enquirer.  Sometime afterwards it was taken to 
Mr. John W. Davies & Son, of Richmond, by someone who claimed 
to be a Confederate soldier, who said he composed it in prison.  
I heard it sung on the streets, and, recognizing the words, 
purchased a copy of the music and wrote to Mr. Davies.  
He asked for the original, which I sent him, and he promptly 
republished it; but this was just at the close of the war, and 
Federal Officers suppressed it.  I have never troubled about it 
since, but as it seems to survive in the hearts and memories of 
our people, I should like to see a correct version.  I hope to 
be in Richmond at the time of the reunion, and hear once more 
"the songs we used to sing."

    With many apologies for trespassing on your time, I am very 
respectfully,

                                            Mrs. E. D. Hundley

                                       (Ellen Dowdell Hundley)

 

            (Below are the original words she wrote.  You may note 
the differences in some of the verses):

Farewell, Forever, to the Star Spangled Banner

           The CHORUS (sung after every verse)

Farewell, forever, the star-spangled banner
    No longer shall wave o'er the land of the free;
In its place we'll unfurl to the broad breeze of Heaven,
    Thirteen bright stars 'round the Palmetto tree.
 
[1.]
Let tyrants and slaves submissively tremble,
   And bow down their necks 'neath the "juggernaut" car;
But brave men will rise in the strength of their manhood,
   And cry, "Give me freedom or else give me war."

[2.]
We honor, yes honor, bold South Carolina,
  Though small she may be, she's brave as the best,
With flagship of States, she's out on the ocean,
  To beat back the waves of a dark billow's crest.

[3.]
We honor, yes honor, our seceding Sisters,
  Who launched this brave bark alone on the sea;
Though tempest may howl and threaten destruction,
  We'll hurl to the blast the proud Palmetto tree.

[4.]
And when to the conflict the others cry, "rescue"
  Virginia, undaunted, will to rush to the fight;
To break down the icebergs of northern coercion,
  And rise in her glory of freedom and right.
 
[5.]
When the fair thirteen Sisters, a bright constellation,
  Shall dazzlingly shine in a nation's pure skies;
With no hands to oppose, nor foes to oppress them,
  They'll gleam there forever, a light to all eyes.

CHORUS

                          Mrs. Ellen Dowdell Hundley
1861
