To his amiable pupil
Miss. Kate W. Payne,
la distinguie chanteuse
Macon, Ga.
"God Defendeth the Right" (1861)
Words by Mrs. DuBose, Sparta, Ga.
Music by Herman L. Schreiner, Op. 30

Macon, GA: John C. Schreiner & Sons
[Source: os70,25@UNC-NC]

1.
Southrons arouse will ye cowaredly slumber
  While through land the war tocsin resounds.
Say shall the foemen our comrades out number
  Whilst one true heart with life's current rebounds.
Up hark the call ringeth shrill through our valleys
  On to the rescue for freedom we fight,
Firm and unyielding in desperate sallies
  Trusting in Him who defendeth the right,
  Trusting in Him who defendeth the right.

CHORUS
Onward! then onward ye brave Southern freemmen!
  Teach the false tyrant how Southrons can fight!
Death is far better than shame and dishonor;
  Trust ye in God who defendeth the right,
  Trust ye in God who defendeth the right.

2.
Long have we yielded to Nothern Agression,
  Yield we no more; as bold freemen we stand!
Shame to submit to a tyrant's oppression,
  Rally for truth and our dear native land,
Up, in the name of God! wait we no longer,
  Now is the moment to do or to die;
Fighting for freedom, each heart shall grow stronger,
  None be so craven to tremble or fly!
  None be so craven to tremble or fly!

(CHORUS)

3.
Spread our fair flag to the breezes of heaven,
  Wide in the winds let each fold be unfurled;
Morning and none, and 'mid shadows of even,
  Proud, let it float to the gaze of the world,
Brothers, remember that baner waves o'er you,
  Never, in shame, must its stars be laid low;
Onward, brave hearts, to the conflict before you,
  Triumph! or die in the ranks of the foe!
  Triumph! or die in the ranks of the foe!

(CHORUS)

4.
God of our fathers, who ever hast aided
  All who strive only, watch over our arms;
Tyrants have scorned and our weakness upbraided,
  Strong let us be amid battle's alarms,
Up, in hte name of God! stalwart and stronger,
  Strike for your homes, in strength of your might,
Slaves we can never be---dally no longer!
  God, whom we trust, defendeth the right.
  God, whom we trust, defendeth the right.

(CHORUS)