"God Save the Flag of Our Native Land" (1861)
Patriotic Song & Chorus
Words by Mrs. Mary R. T. McAboy, of Paris, KY
Music by George Martyn
Author of
Rock Me to Sleep Mother.

Louiville, KY: Wm. McCarrell, 310 West Jefferson St.
Plate No. 7-4
[Source: 088/049@Levy]

1. God save the flag of our native land
  The glorious banner of stripes and stars
Crush’d be the treach erous craven hand
  That its hallow’d and blended beauty mars
Long hath it gallantly flood ed out.
  Our ensign of freedom on see and shore.
And the sovereign people with loyal shout
  Shall ral ly around it forevermore
    American freemen hand to hand
    A bulwark to guard it well shall stand.

CHORUS [sung after each VERSE]
God save the flag of our native land.
God save the flag of our native land.
God save the flag. God save the flag.
God save the flag of our native land.

2. Anderson guarded it well thro’ the fray
  With his gallant band all so staunch and true
Thousands of years shall have passed away
  Still Sumpter shall loom o’er the waters blue
A monument true to the stripes and stars
  As dear as the veins that encircle the heart
Then crush’d be the cowardly band that mars
  Its beauty or tears its folds apart
    American freemen hand to hand
    A bulwark to guard it well shall stand.

3. By the shot that stuck it from Moultrie’s height,
  When Jasper restored its starry field;
Cease we to guard it by freedom’s might,
  May our hands be palsied, our tongues grow cold.
By New Orleans, and her memories brave
  When Jackson to victory led the way,
As countless as the leaves of the forest that wave
  We’ll gather until triumph shall crown the day.
    American freemen hand to hand
    A bulwark to guard it well shall stand.

4. God save the flag of our native land
  From the pineclad North to the palmy South
Loyal the people— the Union band
  Shall repeat the promise from mouth to mouth
By Valley Forge, with its memories deep
  The blood shed that crimson’d the midnight snow
The flag of our country we swear to keep
  It shall never be lower’d to greet the foe.
    American freemen hand to hand
    A bulwark to guard it well shall stand.
