"I Would I Were a Slave Again" (1861)
Words & Music by
C. A. Grace.

Boston, MA: RUSSELL & PATEE, 61 Court St.
Russell A. Tolman
William Payne
Lithography by Baker
[Source: 088/090@Levy]

Extract from a letter to the Publisher.

On a beautiful summer morning, during the past season, as I was
about to take my usual walk around Boston Common, I was accousted
by a wretched and woe-begone looking colored individual, who was
standing at the gate, leading from Tremont Street to Park Street
Mall.  He told me at once that he was a Slave from Tennessee, and
said that in endeavoring to make his escape, he had traveled most
of the way on foot, and in the night time.  He had been in the
Canadas for a few weeks, and had not met with several other
fugitives, whom he represented as being in a desolate condition.
Massachussetts seems to have been the place that he was determined
to find; I was pleasantly surprised when he informed me that he and
his comrades were always of opinion that MASSA CHUSETTS, was a great
man, who wanted to give all of the Slaves their freedom, and take
care of them himself.  The poor fellow was almost broken down through
fatigue, starvation, and dissapointment; he had ridden over a hundred
miles, stowed away in a cattle train, in coming to Boston, and had
slept on the Commons for the past two nights.  I gave him the names
of several parties who are prominent in the community as being
friends to the Slaves, and was astonished to hear from him that he
had been to some of those persons, who only referred him one to
another, but without offering either assistance or relief.  When I
questioned him in regard to his former owner, he burst into tears,
and said that he had the best home and kindest master that anybody
could have, and was fervent in his desire and determination to
return to his old home; to that end I gave him some advice, and all
the assistance which I could afford.  If he succeeded in reaching
his protector once more, I only hope that he is a wiser, better,
and a happier man.

1. I would I were a slave again,
  As I was once before;
With happy heart I’d then remain,
  Content for ever more;
While fancy painted liberty,
  How bright the visions were;
But now that I am really free,
  I wander in despair.

CHORUS [sung after each VERSE]
I would I were a slave again,
  As I was once before;
With happy heart I’d then remain,
  Content for ever more.

2. Far from my home, my happy home,
  The spot  where I was born.
A poor, deluded wretch I roam,
  Dejected and forlorn;
No food to eat, no place of rest,
  No friend to help me now;
There’s anguish in my aching breast,
  And sorrow on my brow.

3. Where are the friends who bade me try
  My freedom to obtain?
I call on every passerby.
  But oh, I call in vain!
Where are they now, who preach and plot,
  All slaves to liberate?
I would to God that ’twas their lot
  To share my hapless fate!

4. Were I once more in Tennessee,
  Content I’d be for life;
Tis there I’d feel secure and free
  From poverty and strife;
My old plantation home I’d love,
  My master I’d obey,
And unto Him who reigns above,
  For evermore I’d pray.
