"Long Live the Sixty[-]Ninth" (29 Aug 1861)
Patriotic Song

  Expressly composed for and Sung at the GREAT FESTIVAL at
JONES' WOOD August 29th 1861 for the benefit of the WIDOWS
& ORPHANS of those of the 69th REGt. who fell at the BATTLE OF
BULL RUN.

Words by
M. Mullaly.
Music by
John J. Daly.

New York: JOHN J. DALY, 419 Grand St.
Plate No. 121
[Source: 088/140@Levy]

1. Hail to the men now in triumph returning,
  Black with the battlesmoke, radiant with fame;
Iceland is proud, and America is grateful,
  The heart of each Irish girl bounds at their name.
    “Caed millea failtha,” men!
      Out on the air again
      Rings the clear sound of the Irish hurrah, (Hurrah!)
  As up from the surging crowd
    Bursts the shout, deep and loud,
    Long live the Sixty-ninth! Erin go Bragh!

2. Many a heart will throb proudly in Ireland,
  Many a bright eye yet brighter will be,
When the fame of their matchless endurance and daring,
  Gives echoing over the fathomless sea;
    Old men will bless their name,
    Youmg men will long for fame,
  Millions who never the Sixtyninth saw
    Will echo that rolling cry
    Sweeping like whirlwind by,
  Long live the Sixty-ninth! Erin go Bragh!

3. The honor of Ireland was safe in their keeping,
  The “Sunburst” and “Stars and Stripes” safe in their hands;
No marvel they fought with a strength superhuman,
  For each man in the Sixtyninth struck for two lands.
    Hail to the true and tried,
    Shout their praise far and wide,
  Greet them once more with an Irish hurrah;
    Swift to charge, firm to stand,
    Brave heart and steady hand—
  Long live the Sixty-ninth! Erin go Bragh!

4. Welcome ye true hearted heroes, thrice welcome!
  To the laurel your motherland’s worn for long years.
Ye have added a leaf, though the chaplet already
  Is so thick that it veils the deep traces of tears.
    Hide not your glorious rags,*

[*  This line has reference to the condition in which
the men returned to New York, the clothes of many being
literally in rags in consequence of the laborious work
which they performed in the trenches of Fort Corearan.
A large number of them had also thrown off their coats
in the heat of the battle at Bull Run that they might do
their work with more vigor; and on leaving the field
they picked up many of those that belonged to the enemy.
Their dress as they passed up Broadway amid the
enthustic cheers of the tens of thousands, who thronged
that thouroughfare presented a mottled appearance.]

    Fling out your tattered flags.
  Spick-and-span soldiers and clothes without flaw,
    Let them admire who will,
    One heartfelt cry be still,
  Long live the Sixty-ninth! Erin go Bragh!

FINALE
Long live the Sixty-ninth!
Long live the Sixty-ninth!
Long live the Sixty-ninth!
Erin go Bragh!
