Respectully Inscribed to the Pennseylvania Volunteers
"On to the Battle" (1861)
Poetry by John E. McCaullay
Music by Henry G. Thunder

Philadelphia: Lee & Walker, 722 Chestnut St.
Plate No. 8263.4
[Source: @NYPL]

1.
  Sons of Columbia on, on to the battle,
Unfurl to the breeze the Flag of the Free,
  ’Neath its bright Stars go with treachery grapple,
And strike for the Union and Liberty.
  Count not the cost the carnage or slaughter,
For deep [? ?] dig rebellion's dark grave;
  If needs be, let blood flow freely as water;
    But the Union, the Union, at all hazards save,
    But the Union, the Union, at all hazards save.

2.
  Our Sire, bequeathed a rich legacy to us,
When Freedom they wrung from proud Albion's crown,
  And now when base ingrates would strive to undo us,
In our might let us strike the foul rebels down!
  Yes, yes! by the Freedom our forefathers cherished
By all that on earth they hold sacred and dear,
  By the blood that so nurtured the fields where they perished,
    O the Union, the Union forever revere!
    O the Union, the Union forever revere!

3.
  Wheel into line all ye host of brave freemen,--
Your consciences clear of reproof in the fray,--
  With hearts true as steel and your bright banners gleaming,
To the ranks of the foe strike dire dismay!
  God will be with you, doubt it, Oh never!
To Him let your prayer, rise. In Him be your trust!
  He joined the links of the Union together,
    And its foes, and His foes shall soon bite the dust,
    And its foes, and His foes shall soon bite the dust!

4.
  Speed then to the battle of Facilons's creating,--
Let liberty strifle the foul monster's breath!--
  'Mid the shrieks of the Eagle-- your hearts penetrating,--
Strike, and STRIKE HOME, for Sedition's sure death!
  Sorrowing hearts may await your returning,
And many a love one may fall in the fight,
  But what glory will yours be, who all dangers spurning,
    Braved even death for the Union and Right!
    Braved even death for the Union and Right!
