"Rock Me To Sleep" (1861)
[(Words by Florence Percy.
(alias for Elizabeth Akers Allen, 1832-1911)]
Composed by E[dward]. Mack.

Philadelphia: Marsh, 1102 Chesnut St.
[Source: 106/146@Levy]

1. Backward, turn backward, oh, time in your flight 
Make me a child again, just for to night! 
Mother come back from the echoless shore, 
Take me  again to your heart as of yore. 
Kiss from my forehead the furruws of care, 
Smooth the few silver thread out of my hair, 
Over my slumbers you’re loving watch keep. 
Rock me to sleep, mother— rock me to sleep!

2. Backward,  flow backward, oh, tide of the years 
I am so weary of toil and of tears 
Toil wihout recompense tears all in vain. 
Take them and give me my childhood again!
 I have grown weary of dust and decay. 
Weary of flinging my soul wealth away. 
Weary of sowing for others to reap; 
Rock me to sleep, mother— rock me to sleep!

3. Tired of the hollow, the bas, the untrue, 
Mother, oh, mother, my heart calls for you! 
Many a sunset the grass has grown green, 
Blossom’d and faded our faces between 
You with strong yearning and passionate pain. 
Long I tonight for your presence again; 
Come from the silence so long and so deep. 
Rock me to sleep, mother— rock me to sleep!

4. Over my heart in the days that are flown
No love like mother love ever has shown—
No other worship abides and endures,
Faithful, unselfish and patient like yours—
None like a mother can charm away pain,
From the sick soul and would weary bring;
Slumber's soft calm o’er my heavy lids creep—
Rock me to sleep, mother— rock me to sleep!

5. Come, let your brown hair, just lighted with gold,
Fall on my shoulder again is of old—
Let it drop over my forehead tonight,
Shading my faint eyes away from the light
For with its weepy edge shadows once more,
Reply will linger the visions of yore.
Lovingly, softly, its bright billows sweep—
Rock me to sleep, mother, rock me to sleep!

6. Mother, dear mother the years have been long
Since I last listened to your lullaby song;
Since then, and unto my soul it shall seem,
Womanhood's tears have been but a dream;
Clasped to your heart in a loving embrace,
With your light lashes just sweeping my face;
Never hereafter to wake or to weep,
Rock me to sleep, mother— rock me to sleep!


