"Southern Marseillais" (1861)
[aka "Marseillaise Hymne"]
[M1642.R]
Words by Mrs. L. Fanshaw
adapted to the air of the
Marseillaise Hymne.
[Original Words & Music
by (Claude) Joseph Rouget de L'isle]

New Orleans: P. P. Werlein & Halsey, 3 & 5 Camp St.
Plate No. 283
[Source: 200002531@Loc/IHAS-CMM]

1. Soldiers, rouse ye, to the battle, 
Arm, Arm ye at your country’s call, 
Hark to the sound of war beyond ye, 
Rouse ye! Rouse ye! one, and all! 
Rouse ye! rouse ye one, and all! 
Homes and liberties are threatened, 
Foes  would have ye, all their own! 
Rouse! assert your manhood freemen! 
Prove that ye can stand alone! 

[CHORUS] [sung after each verse]
To arms, to arms ye brave! 
Th’avenging sword unsheath! 
March on! March on! 
All hearts resolved on Victory or Death, 
March on, March on! 
All hearts resolved, on Victory or Death.

2. Now, now the dangerous storm is rolling,
Which treacherous Kings confedate raise;
The dogs of war, let loose, are howling
And lo! the walls and cities blaze,
And lo! the walls and cities blaze,
And shall we basely view the ruin;
While lawless force with guilty stride,
Spreads desolation far and wide,
With crimes and blood his hand embruing.

3. With luxury and pride surrounded,
The vile insatiate despots dare,
Their thirst for gold and power unbounded,
To mete and vend the light and air:
To mete and vend the light and air:
Like beasts of burden would they lead us,
Like Gods, would bid their slaves adore;
But man is man, and who is more?
Then shall they longer lash and goad us?

4. O LIBERTY! Can man resign thee?
Once having felt thy genrous flame,
Can dungeons, halls and bars confine thee?
Or whips thy noble spirit tame?
Or whips thy noble spirit tame?
Too long the world has wept bewailing
That falsehood’s dagger tyrants wield;
But freedom is our Sword and Shield,
And all their arts unavailing.

[Translated 1st verse of the original French.]
Ye sons of France awake to glory, 
Hark, hark, what myriads bid you rise, 
Your children, wives and grand sires hoary; 
Behold their tears and hear their cries, 
Behold their tears and hear their cries: 
Shall hatefull tyrants mischiefs breading, 
With hireling hosts, a ruffian band, 
Affright and desolate the land, 
While peace and liberty lie bleeding 

[NOTE: the complete original French lyrics
are included in the source.]