"Trooper's Death" ([25 Oct 1861 in Springfield, MO] 1862)
Words, from an anonymous German student song,
translated and arranged
by Captains Raymond and Howard.
[Source: pp. 228-9, from Mrs. Jessie Benton Fremont's 
"The Story of the Guard: A Chronicle of the War" (1862)]

1.
The weary night is o'er at last!
We ride so still, we ride so fast;
We ride where death is lying.
The morning wind doth coldly pass,
Landlord we'll take another glass,
  Ere dying, ere dying!

2.
Thou springing grass, that art so green,
Shall soon be rosy red, I ween,
My blood the hue supplying!
I drink the first glass, sword in hand,
To him who for the Fatherland
  Lies dying! Lies dying!

3.
Now quickly comes the second draught,
And that shall be to freedom quaffed
While freedom's foes are flying!
The rest, O Land! our hope and faith!
We'd drink to thee with latest breath,
  Though dying! Though dying!

4.
My darling!-- ah, the glass is out!
The bullets ring, the riders shout--
No time for wine or sighing!
There! bring my love the shivened glass,
Charge! on the foe! no joys surpass
  Such dying! such dying!

[NOTEs:
  The song, "Trooper's Death" is referring to the death
of 18 Union Cavalrymen belonging to General "Fremont's 
Body Guard", in the battle known as "Zagonyi's Charge".  
This battle, which occurred on Fri., Oct.25, 1861 
(between 4:00 and 6:00 PM) and which was purported to be 
the first cavalry sabre charge of the Civil War, gained 
national notoriety, and was also featured in news 
stories all over Europe.
  The song was featured in a book written by General 
Fremont's wife, Jessie Benton Fremont (daughter of 
Missouri Senator, Thomas Hart Benton).  The book, 
"The Story of the Guard: A Chronicle of the War" 
was published in Boston in 1863 by publisher, 
Ticknor and Fields.  It was initially published 
in 1862 and also had subsequent publishings.  
It's on the last two pages of the book, pages 
228 and 229.
  In the "Preface" of the book, Mrs. Fremont was 
explaining, that she wrote the book, as a means 
of attaining funds for the members of the Body Guard, 
because the government had prematurely disbanded them, 
without pay, rations, or subsistence of any sort.  So, 
she obtained the unit's papers and spoke to individual 
members of the unit in order to get stories for the book, 
and she goes on to explain.......  "Mr. (Captain) RAYMOND 
was at the piano while I was thinking this over, and [he] 
chanced upon one of his German student songs, which so 
fitted to and embodied the Charge, that we adopted it at 
once as the Song of the Guard; and then there, in the 
midnight hours, we made each our contribution to this 
Story of the Guard.  I had the General's letters, telling 
me very fully of the Charge and many incidents connected 
with it.  Major CORWINE, who was Judge Advocate on the 
staff, had the deepest interest in the "Kentucky Company", 
which he had mainly recruited himself; and the Song is from 
the memories of Capts. HOWARD and RAYMOND, who made the 
English translation, and arranged it for the piano.  
The song is, I think, perfectly charming: - opening with 
measured, muffled, tramping minor chords, it breaks into 
the open key to be gathered at the close of each verse 
into one quivering minor chord on the word "Dying"."]

[SPECIAL NOTE from source photocopy submitter to
Public Domain Music <www.pdmusic.org>:]

I'm accumulating data on all of the members of General 
Fremont's Body Guard (Union Cavalry Unit), and would 
want any descendants who see the song at your site, 
to be able to contact me.  I'm writing a booklet on 
Fremont's Body Guard.

John Maurath
conlaeth@juno.com 

