To the Rev. H. C. Montgomery, A. M.
Pastor of the Church of the Incarnation
"The National Hymn" (1861)
Originally Writted for the
"Committee"
But Not Presented.
Words by William Lewers
Music by Bertrand J. Hoffacker

New York: William Lewers, NO. 3 Pacific Place,
(West 29th Street)
Engraver: T. Birch & Son, 521, 6th Avenue
[Source: 015/004@Levy]

1. Land of the West where thy Sons with thy glory, 
Make vocal thy mountains, thy glens and thy vales, 
Where thy Sires from their battlefields, rest, gash’d and gory 
May their children still float thy old Flag on thy gales, 
  Where thy Sires from their battlefields, rest gash’d and gory, 
  May their children still float thy old Flag on thy gales, on thy gales.

CHORUS [sung after each verse]
Our lov’d Constitution, its Law never cease, 
Let our watch words be Liberty, Union and Peace. 
  Our lov’d Constitution. its Law never cease, 
  Let our watch words be Liberty, Union, and Peace.

2. From the prairies which glow with their wild flow’rs adorning,
From thy rivers that flash, as they glide to the sea;
From thy mountains, which welcome the beams of the morning,
Oh, God! thou did’st form this fair land to be free.
  From thy mountains, which welcome the beams of the morning,
  Oh, God! thou did’st form this fair land to be free.

3. Beautiful land, where the Exile and Stranger,
May flee from the tyranny over the sea;
And shelter, secure, in thy bosom from danger,
Our warm hearts are pouring their tribute to thee.
  And shelter, secure, in thy bosom from danger,
  Our warm hearts are pouring their tribute to thee.

4. What Patriot’s heart doth not kindle with feeling,
As he views this fair heritage, left by our Sires;
Lifts a prayer to high heav’n, like her Washington! kneeling,
That no hand may be found, to extinguish her fires.
  Lifts a prayer to high heav’n, like her Washington! kneeling,
  That no hand may be found, to extinguish her fires.

5. As time rolls his chariot, and years fade and perish,
May the deeds of thy Fathers, be kept still in view;
And blighted the heart be, who ceases to cherish,
Our lov’d Institutions so valued and true.
  And blighted the heart be, who ceases to cherish,
  Our lov’d Institutions so valued and true.

6. Let the Red, White, and Blue, then be seen in the morning,
Let it float still in triumph, wherever it be;
And at sunset, its folds may they still be adorning,
And the land it floats o’er, may it ever be free!
  And at sunset, its folds may they still be adorning,
  And the land it floats o’er, may it ever be free!
