Respectfully Dedicated to
The Gallant Soldiers of the Union Armies,
"The Union Soldier's Hymn" (1861)
A
National Song & Melody
by
Thomas L. Smith,
Music by
Augustus Paulsen.

New Albany, Indiana: Jones & Moran 1862.
[Source: ihs-SHMU_07_07-01]

1. With trumpets’ clang and rolling drum, From peaceful homes, away;
Our Country’s summons bids us come, In grim war’s stern array.
Midst gleaming steel we raise again, The flag our Fathers bore;
With loyal hearts we will maintain,  Its honor ever more.
Forever! ever! ever! For ever! ever more!

2. In peace and war, long has it streamed o’r us by land and sea
By the admiring world esteemed, flag of the brave and free.
Shall craven hands, unpunished, dare abase that flag of yore?
No, by our fathers’s graves, we swear! no, never, never more.
No! never, never, never! We swear it! Never more.

3. The stars its azure union holds, our gallant heroes won,
Their lifeblood, shed beneath its folds, has paid for every one.
Accursed be the caitiff knave, who dares, on sea or shore,
Insult that banner of the brave, forever,  ever more!
Forever, ever ever! Ac curs’d forevmore.er more.

4. As soon a planet shall be shorn from Heaven’s glit’ring dome,
As one such star shall e’er be torn out from its silken home.
Though war’s dire ruin, wreck, and woe, most deeply we deplore,
That flag must wave o’er every foe forever, ever more!
Forever, ever, ever! Must wave for ever more.

5. Virginia’s rugged hills to scale, our brothers march amain.
And rebel bands before them quail on every battle plain.
And down by Carolina’s seas, where surging billows roar,
We throw that banner to the breeze forever, ever more.
Forever, ever, ever! To float forever more.

6. Now o’er Kentucky’s “bloody ground,” and o’er the Southern plains.
We march to free our brother, bound in traitors’ galling chains.
Then march, march on in seried hands, the stars and striped must soar,
O’er all of Freedom’s chosen lands forever, ever more.
Forever, ever, ever! Must soar forever more.
