"Glory Hallelujah" (1862)
The popular Marching Hymn of the
U N I O N   V O L U N T E E R S
New version, adapted and arranged
by W[ILLIA]m. DRESSLER.

Just published as a Galop entitled "Massachusets Volunteers
Galop Quickstep" by Wm. Dressler Author of "Union War Galop,"
"Zouaves Battle March," "Soldiers Requiem," "Union Medley,"
"Banner Song," "Rebel Schottisch," "United States Lancer
Quadrilles," "Jefferson and Liberty Var:" "Girl I Left Behind
Me Var:" &c.
Also published "Close the Ranks Firmls," and "Thick Clouds Were
Darkly Pending" two famous Union Songs, and now improved editions
of "Hail Columbia," and "Star Spangled Banner," and "Yankee Doodle"
Vocal & Instrumental.

New York: William Dressler
Plate No. 227_4
[Source: 088/043@Levy]

1. John Brown’s body’s mould’ring in the grave,
His mem’ry lives with ev’ry Freeman brave,
His noble cause it was to free the slave,
His soul is marching on.

CHORUS 1-­8.
Sing we Glory Hallelujah,
Glory Glory Hallelu jah
Sing we Glory Hallelujah!
As bold we march along 

2. John Brown’s knapsack’s strapped upon his back,
His arms upraised ready for the attack,
His spirit will be with us on our track,
His soul is marching on.

3. His pet lambs will meet him on the way,
Fearless will they face the enemy,
They will capture ev’ry sheep astray,
They’re boldly marching on. 

4. Ellsworth too lies in the silent grave,
He fell a martyr, for our flag to save,
Cowardly murdered by a traitor knave,
But his soul still marches on.

5. He’s gone to be a soldier of the Lord,
There   where dwell the brave in sweet accord,
Peacefully without th’avenging sword
Their souls are marching on.

6. Say: yo brothers, will you meet us?
Will you join us in our cause? ’tis just;
God of battles will be with us,
Trusting him we’ll march along.

7. We’ll hang Jeff Davis on the very first tree
And all the Ringleaders on land or sea,
We’ll fight the Rebels and we’ll make them flee
As we boldly march along.

8. Come the comrade, bravely join our band,
Give us your aid and a strong armed hand,
Let’s rout the traitor scamps throughout out land
As we boldly march along.

9. We must restore the Union strongly tied,
Spread our starry banner far and wide
Raise a government to be our pride
And in triumph march along.

CHORUS 9.
Three rousing cheers for the Union
Three rousing cheers for the Stars and Stripes
Three hearty cheers for our President!
And all our patriots brave
