Three Popular Songs. (1864)
by
David A. Warden.

1. General Scott and Corporal Johnson.
2. The Flag's Come Back to Tennessee.
3. The Picket's Last Watch.

Philadelphia: J. E. Gould, 7th & Chesnut St.
Boston: O. Ditson & Co.
N. York: W. A. Pond & Co.
Cin.: J. Church Jr.
Boston: J. C. Haynes & Co.
Lithographer: Geo. F. Swain

"General Scott
and
Corporal Johnson" (1862)
[Adapted from "The Bonnie Blue Flag" (1861)]
Words by Bayard Taylor
Music by D[avid]. A. Warren

[Source: 088/028@Levy]


1. An old and crippled vereran to the war department came, 
He sought the chief who had led him on many a field of fame.
The chief who shouted “forward” where ere his banner rose, 
And bore its stars in triumph behind the flying foes, 
“Have you forgotten General the battered soldier cried, 
The glorious days of 1812, when I was at your side?
Have you forgotten Johnson, that fought at Lundy’s Lane? 
’Tis true I’m old and pensioned, but I want to fight again.

2. Have I forgotten said the chief my brave old soldier so?
And here’s the hand I gave you then and let it tell you so, 
But you have done your share, you’re crippled, old and gray.
And we have need of younger men and fresher blood today, 
But General  cried —the veteran with a flush upon his brow, 
The very men who fought with us they say are traitors now;
They’ve torn the flag of Lundy’s Land 
The old Red, White and Blue, 
And while a drop of blood is left 
I’ll show that drop is true.

3. I’m not so weak but I can strike, and I’ve a good old gun,
To get the range of traitor’s hearts and pick them one by one;
Your Mireie rifles and such arms it ain’t worth while to try,
I couldn’t get the best of them, but I’ll keep my powder dry,
“God bless you,” said the Chief, “God bless your loyal heart,
But younger men are in the field, and claim to have their part,
They’ll plant our sacred banner in each rebellion town,
And woe, henceforth to any hand that dares to pull it down!”

4. “But, General,” still persisting, the weeping veteran cried,
“I’m young enough to follow, as long as you’re my guide;
And some you know must bite the dust, and that at least can I,
So, give the young a place to fight, and me a place to die.
If they should fire on Pickens, let the Colonel in command,
Place me on the ramparts with the flag staff in my hand,
No matter where the shots may strike, or how the shells may fly,
I’ll keep the stars and stripes aloft, and hold them till I die.”

5. “I’m ready, General, so you let a post to me be given,
Where Washington  can see me as he looks from highest heaven,
And say to Putnam at his side or maybe General Wayne,
There stands old Corporal Johnson, that fought at Lundy’s Lane.
And when the fight is hottest, before the traitors fly,
When shell and ball are screaching, and bursting in the sky,
If any shot should hit me, and lay me on my face,
My soul would go to Washington, and not to Arnold’s place.

