To the President of the United States
"Hold on Abraham" (1862) 
Song and Chorus. 
Being a response of 
Uncle Sam's Boys 
to the Call for 
"Three Hundred Thousand More," 
(Uncle Sam's Boys Are Coming Right Along.) 
Sung with immense success by 
Wood's Minstrels,
By 
William B[atchelder]. Bradbury[, 1816-1868].
-- Aurhor of --
Marching Along, The Dear Old Flag, Flag of Our Union, &c. &c.

New York: Wm. A. Pond & Co., 547 Broadway
New York: Wm. B. Bradbury, Broome St.
Boston: O. Ditson & Co.
Lithographer: Stackpole, Sc.
[Source: 005/038@Levy]

1. We’re going down to Dixie, to Dixie, to Dixie, 
We’re going down to Dixie, to fight for the dear old Flag; 
And should we fall in Dixie, in Dixie, in Dixie, 
And should we fall in Dixie, we’ll die for the dear old Flag.

CHORUS [sung after each verse]
Hold on Abraham, 
Never say die to your Uncle Sam; 
Uncle Sam’s boys are coming right along, 
Six hundred thousand strong.

2. Our Flag shall float o’er Dixie, o’er Dixie, o’er Dixie,
Our Flag shall float o’er Dixie, the Red, the White and Blue;
We’ll ne’er give up ’till Dixie, ’till, Dixie, ’till Dixie,
We’ll ne’er give up ’till Dixie, sings Yankee Doodle Doo.

3. Our Halleck’s bound for Dixie, for Dixie, for Dixie,
Our Halleck’s bound for Dixie, with a million boys or two:
He’ll never give up Dixie, old Dixie, old Dixie,
He’ll never give up Dixie, ’till she’s back in the Union true.

4. McClellan he’s in Dixie, in Dixie, in Dixie,
McClellan he’s in Dixie, and ready for the foe:
Do you think he’ll give up Dixie, old Dixie, old Dixie,
Do you think he’ll give up Dixie, oh, no no no no no no.

5. Bold Kearney fell in Dixie, in Dixie, in Dixie,
Bold Kearney fell in Dixie, while fighting for us all:
And there is Gen’ral Burnside, our Burnside, our Burnside,
And there is Gen’ral Burnside, he will avenge his fall.

6. And where is Gen’ral Butler, our Butler, our Butler,
And where is “Picayube Butler,” he’s gone to Dixie town:
And there he keeps a stir’ing, a stir’ing, a strir’ing,
And there he keeps a strir’ing, the Secesh up and down.

7. Brave Corcoran’s come from Dixie, from Dixie, from Dixie,
Brave Corcoran’s come from Dixie, to speed the cause along:
He’s going back to Dixie, to Dixie, to Dixie,
He’s going back to Dixie, with a Brigade full and strong.

8. Our friends have gone to Dixie, to Dixie, to Dixie,
Our friends have gone to Dixie, to fight for the dear old Flag:
And we’re all going to Dixie, to Dixie, to Dixie,
And we’re all going to Dixie, to stand by the dear old Flag.
