A
Collection of popular
DUETTS,
Songs and Ballads
Arranged for the Piano
by
Various Authors.

"JONATHAN'S APPEAL TO CAROLINE
or
Mr. North to Madame South." [1862]
Written by Miss M. Stoddard.

Boston, MA: Russell & Tolman, 291 Washington St.
P.P. Werlain: N. Orleans.
Russell & Paine [sp?]: Boston.
Root & Cady: Chicago.
A. & Q.R. Andrews: Albany.
Plate No. 2878
[Source: 200002019@Loc/IHAS/CWM]

1. You are gazing far away, far away my little pet,
There is no one left to love me now, Oh! Darling you forget,
How I’ve always bowed to you, let you always have your way.
Now Dearest don’t ungrateful be, and tear yourself away.
Think of all I’ve sacrificed, just for you, to keep your slaves,
And to increse your wealth and power, and make your children knaves,
Then how I have compromised everytime you wished you know,
Carolina ’tis a shame to treat your loving Johnny so!
Carolina ’tis a shame to treat your loving Johnny so! 

2. Only think, the gold I’ve paid, buying all your land and state,
And then pursued the Seminole with war and deadly hate,
Texas too, I bought with blood, besides a heap of gold
Because you mean, that men shall be like cattle bought and sold;
Then I’ve carried all your mails, letters, papers, all for you,
And from my pocket I have paid quite all your postage too
Then to think how you have ruled, in Congress, Church and State,
And always had your President, not cared to please your Mate.
And always had your President, not cared to please your Mate.

3. Now because for once my votes out do your swindling plan,
You mean to break the Union up, and show what harm you can,
Think, to please you, how I worked, down upon my knees I’ve toiled
While for my sake you’ve never once your dainty fingers soiled;
Then you’ve called me wicked names, Yankee mudsill, farmer small,
And yet I have a christtian been, and borne in meekness all,
Yes you know I’ve borne all this, and a thousand other ills,
Justice live in peace with you, and run my Cotton Mills.
Justice live in peace with you, and run my Cotton Mills.

4. Then you know I’ve active been, mobing Preachers if they dared
Say aught against your darling sin, hard was the fate they shared;
Then to think I’ve caught your slaves, when they tried to run away,
And never let them stop to rest, this side of Canada;
Now it really makes me mad, to think how foolish I have been
How for your sake I’ve lost my peace and steeped my soul in sin;
And yet you have a traitor proved and stole my guns away,
But as I have a few more left, I guess I’ll stop to play.
But as I have a few more left, I guess I’ll stop to play.

5. Madam you will trouble see, unless your temper soon is mended,
And much you’ll wish you’d stayed with me, before the war is ended;
Yet since you the war have brought, blame yourself for all the sorrow,
That now enshrouds all hearts and homes, and fills our land with horror;
Though I fight but for the laws, and stand on Constitution,
Yet blame yourself, if midst the crash, down comes your Institution!
And devoutly good men pray, for such a consumation,
And wise ones tell us peace can come, but in Emancipation!!
And wise ones tell us peace can come, but in Emancipation!!

6. Carolina don’t you see, that we both have blinded been!
To think that God would always smile upon our Nation’s sin!
Read the name of Nations lost, once they build their Babel Towers,
But sin hath swept them from the earth, will justice pass by ours?
Really now I’m half inclined to think, that good men see aright,
That naught but justice by the slave, will bring the Nation light.
God of justice, grant me sight, show to me thy path more clear,
And grant me strength to walk therein, untrammeled too by fear.
And grant me strength to walk therein, untrammeled too by fear.
