To H. H. Culbertson,
of Versailles, KY.
"Pass Under the Rod" (1862)
Sacred Song
Words by
Mrs. Dana
[aka Mary S. B. Dana;
aka Mary Stanley Bunce Palmer Dana Shindler (1810-1883)]
Music by
Mrs. Sue Ingersoll Scott, 1834-1920+

Cincinnati, OH: John Church, Jr., 66 W. Fourth St.
New York, NY: W. A. Pond & Co.
Boston, MA: O. Ditson & Co.
Philadelphia, PA: W. A. Trumpler
Stereotyped at the Franklin Type Foundry, Cincinnati, O.
[Source: 131/076@Levy]

1. I saw the young bride, in her beauty and pride,
  Bedecked in her snowy array;
And the bright flush of joy mantled high on her cheek,
  And the future looked blooming and gay;
And with woman’s devotion she laid her fond heart
  At the shrine of idolatrous love,
And she anchored her hopes to this perishing earth,
  By the chain which her tenderness wove.
But I saw when those heart-strings were bleeding and torn,
  And the chain had been severed in two,
She had changed her white robes for the sables of grief,
  And her bloom for the paleness of woe!
But the Healer was there, pouring balm on her heart,
  And wiping the tears from her eyes;
He strengthened the chain He had broken in twain,
  And fastened it firm to the skies!
There had whispered a voice— ’twas the voice of her God—
“I love thee, I love thee— pass under the rod!”

2. I saw the young mother in tenderness bend
  O’er the couch of her slumbering boy;
And she kissed the soft lips as they murmured her name,
  While the dreamer lay smiling in joy.
O! sweet as the rosebud encircled with dew,
  When its fragrance is flung on the air,
So fresh and as bright to that mother he seemed,
  As he lay in his innocence there.
But I saw, when she gazed on the same lovely form,
  Pale as marble, and silent and cold;
But paler and colder her beautiful boy,
  And the tale of her sorrow was told!
But the Healer was there who had stricken her heart,
  And taken her treasure away;
To allure her to heaven He has placed it on high,
  And the mourner will sweetly obey.
There had whispered a voice— ’twas the voice of her God—
“I love thee, I love thee— pass under the rod!”

3. I saw a father and mother who leaned
  On the arms of a dear gifted son,
And the star in the future grew bright to their gaze
  As they saw the proud place he had won:
And the fast-coming evening of life promised fair,
  And its pathway grew smooth to their feet;
And the starlight of love glimmered bright at the end,
  And the whispers of fancy were sweet.
And I saw them again bending low o’er the grave
  Where their hearts’ dearest hope had been laid,
And the star had gone down in the darkness of night,
  And the joy from their bosom had fled.
But the Healer was there, and His arms were around,
  And He led them with tenderest care;
And He showed them a star in the bright upper world—
  ’Twas their star shining brilliantly there!
They had each heard a voice— ’twas the voice of their God—
“I love thee, I love thee— pass under the rod!”
