Dedicated to Hlasko's Philadelphia Cadets
"The Union Battle Cantata" (31 Jan 1862)
Words and Music by G. Gumpert
Arranged by F. Losse

[Source: 200001168@LoC/IHAS-CWM]

[Tempo di marcia]
1.
Forward march, forward march, to the battle of the free;
Forward march, to fight for our liberty,
Forward march, forward march to the battle of the free,
To defend our Country's honor.
Three cheers for the Star Spangled banner,
Three cheers for the Red, White and Blue.
Forward march, forward march, to the battle of the free,
To defend our glorious Union.
Halt! Load! Aim! Fire!

2.
Forward march, forward march, to the battle of the free;
Forward march, to fight for our liberty,
Forward march, forward march to the battle of the free,
To defend our Country's honor.
Three cheers for the Star Spangled banner,
Three cheers for the Red, White and Blue.
Forward march, forward march, to the battle of the free,
While the Star Spangled banner waves before us.
Halt! Charge bayonets! double quick march!

[Quick Step]
3.
The traitors and pirates plunder and steal,
Forgive them? Unpunished? No! never!
The laws must be kept to them we appeal,
Our freedom, our freedom forever.

4.
A coward who shrinks away from his post,
When the States are threat'ning to sever.
Great God! O! help us or all will be lost.
Our country, our country forever.

[Storm March]
Hurrah! Hurrah! Hurrah! Halt!

[Andante. SOLO.]
5.
American eagle, acend to the sky,
Proclaim to all nations these words from on high,
Columbia, the land of the free and the bless'd,
Is a home and a refuge for all the oppress'd.
And thou starry banner,
In triumph shall wave,
Onve more over Sumpter and Washington's grave.
Our honorl, our lives, we pledge them to thee,
The flag of the Union, the land of the free.

[Andante. CHORUS.]
6.
Praise the God of Liberty,
Praise him who blesses our nation,
The God of our fathers who made us free,
We will trust for our preservation;
Columbia still hails with glory and pride,
Her Washington's name dearly sherish'd.
American sons stand by your flag,
'Till all traitors forever have perish'd.
  American sons stand by your flag,
  'Till all traitors forever have perish'd.

