[Cover page:
We Are Coming, Father Abraham,
300,000
MORE.]

We are coming, Father Abraham, Three Hundred Thousand more,
From Mississippi's winding stream, from New England's shore;
We leave our Plows and Workshops, and Wives and Children dear,
With hearts too full for utterance, with but a silent tear;
We dare no look behind us, but steadfastly before--
We are coming, Father Abraham, Three Hundred Thousand more.

Music Arranged
by
J. A. GETZE.

[Title page:]
"We Are Coming, Father Abraham,
Three Hundred Thousand More" (1862)
Song and Chorus
[Words by James Sloan Gibbons]
Arranged by J. A. Getze

Philadelphia, PA: Lee & Walker, 722 Chestnut Street
Plate No. 8725.4
[Source: 003/120@Levy]

1.
We are coming, Father Ab.ra’am, three hundred thousand more,
From Missisippi’s winding stream and from New England’s shore;
We leave our plows and workshops, our wives and children dear,
With hearts too full for utterance with but a silent tear;
Oh we dare not look behind us, but steadfastly before—
We are coming Father Abra’am
Three hundred thousand more! 

CHORUS [sung after each VERSE]
We are coming, we are coming,
Our Union to restore;
We are coming, Father Abra’am,
With Three hundred thousand more.

2.
If you look across the hill tops that meet the northern sky,
Long moving lines of rising dust your vision may descry;
And now the wind an instant, tears the cloudy veil aside,
And floats aloft our spangled flag in glory and in pride;
And bayonets in the sunlight gleam and bands brave music play—
We are coming Father Abra’am
Three hundred thousand more!

3.
If you look all up our valleys where the growing harvests shine,
You may see our sturdy farmer boys fast forming into line;
And children from their mothers’ knees are pulling at the weeds,
And learning how to reap and sow against their country’s needs;
And a farewell group stands weeping at ev’ry cottage door—
We are coming Father Abra’am
Three hundred thousand more!

4.
You have call’d us, and we’er coming, by Richmond’s bloody tide,
To lay us down for freedom’s sake, our brothers’ bones beside;
Or from foul treason’s savage group to wrench the murd’rous blade,
And in the face of foreign foes its fragments to parade;
Three hundred thousand loyal men and true have gone before—
We are coming Father Abra’am
Three hundred thousand more!
