[24291]
[No. 195]
[Deposited May 9th 1863]
"A Quaker Letter to Lincoln" [9 May 1863]
BALLAD
[Lith. of P. S. Duval & Son., Philada.]
Words by
Elmer Rua['] Coates
"Thee'll pardon me friend Abraham
  I feel I should write"
Music
by
E. M. Bruce.

Philadelphia, PA: BRUCE & BISBEE, 18 N. Seventh St.
[COPYRIGHT
Jan 21 1864
LIBRARY]
[M 1640
  .B]
[Source: civilwardigital.com]

1. Thee’ll pardon me friend Abraham I feel that I should write
Yea I’m commanded so to do by this internal light 
Since Horace Greely wrote to thee I’ve felt a great concern
To say the little in my breast that makes my bosom burn.

2. While in the meetinghouse this morn awaiting on the Lord
I thouht of nothing but the war and of the rebel horde
And though in principle a Friend oppos’d to wicked war
Yet Abraham I think thee needs at least a million more.

3. When going home I said the same, to Abigal my wife,
And much we talk’d about the woe that follows loss of life 
And as she though in solitude although opposed to war
It seem’d to her that war would end had thee a million more.

4. My friend thee has a wily foe mrn of our own dear Land
And they are fighting for their necks and for the “Contraband.”
Thy plan is to outnumber them and though opposed to war,
I think thy speedy course should be to raise a million more.

5. I often ask myself the way a Quaker should pursue
If all men kept our Discipline our land would break into
And when the fracturing begins We’ll have no end of war
So Abraham although a friend thee needs a million more.

6. Our dear young mern are all aroused so deeply thee deplore
They’re joining “fighting Joseph’s” band to end “this cruel war”
I sometimes think though minister and follower of Penn.
Man was not made for discipline but discipline for men.

7. Remember thee must garrison most every point we take
This drives thy enemies to arms and they will concentrate
So if thee dont outnumber them thee cannot win the war.
Although a Friend I really think thee needs a million more.

8. Then keep recruiting Abraham in every town and ward
Don’t talk of fight but tell them join the army of the Lord
And though of that society so much opposed to war
I feel that love and peace would come had thee a million more.
