[24319]
[No. 472.]
[Deposited Oct. 5th, 1863]
Respectfully Dedicated to all Disconsolate Conscripts.
"Come In Out of the Draft,"
or,
The Disconsolate Conscript.
[aka “How Are Your Conscript?”
[9 Oct1863; 21 Jan 1864]
COMIC SONG

Words by
Ednor Rossiter.
Music by
B. Frank Walters.

Philadelphia, PA: LEE & WALKER, 722 Chestnut St.
Detroit, MI: J. HENRY WHITTEMORE.
[M 1640
  .W]
[COPYRIGHT
Jan 21 1864
LIBRARY]
[Plate no.] 8898.4.
[Source: civilwardigital.com]

1. As it was rather warm, I thought the other day,
I’d find some cooler place, The summer months to stay;
I had not long been gone, When a paper to me came,
And in the list of conscripts, I chanced to see my name,
  I showed it to my friends, And at me they all laughed,
  They said “How are you CONSCRIPT?— Come in out fom the draft.”

2. Oh! soon I hurried home, For I felt rather blue,
I thought I’d ask my DAD, What I had better do;
Says he, you are not young, You’re over thirty five,
The best thing you can do, Sir, Is— go and take a bride,
  My Mother on me smiled, My Brother at my laughed,
  And said “How are you CONSCRIPT?— Come in out fom the draft.”

3. I soon made up my mind, That I would take a wife,
For she could save my cash, And I could save my life.
I called up on a friend, I offered her my hand—
But she said she couldn’t see it, For she loved another man.
  She told it to her Ma, And to me they both laughed,
  And  said  “How are you CONSCRIPT?— Come in out fom the draft.”

4. So next I advertized, And soon a chap I found,
Who said that he would go, For just two hundred down.
I took him to sleep, Says I “now I’m all right,”
But when I woke, I found that He’d rob’d me in the night!
 I went and told the Mayor, The people round me laughed, 
 And said “How are you CONSCRIPT?— Come in out fom the draft.”

5. I to the Provost went, my notice in my hand,
I found a crowd around, And with it took my stand;
I waited there till night, From early in the morn,
But when I got inside oh! My pockedbook was gone!
  I thought I should go mad, But ev’rybody laughed,
  And said “How are you CONSCRIPT?— Come in out fom the draft.”

6. I’ve tried to get a wife, I’ve tried to get a SUB,
But what I next shall do, Now really is the rub
My money’s almost gone, And I am nearly DAFT,
Will some one tell me what to do, To get out of the draft?
  I’ve asked my friends all round, But at me they all laughed,
  And said “How are you CONSCRIPT?— Come in out fom the draft.”
