DAN BRYANT’S
Popular Song
"How Are You Green-Backs" [10 Apr 1863; 3 Nov 1863]
as sung by him
wih immense Success
at
BRYANT’S MINSTRELS
also by
Mrs. JOHN WOOD
in the grand Fairy Extravaganza
FAIR ONE WITH THE GOLDEN LOCKS
Words by
 E. Bowers, Esq.
[Music by
Dan Bryant]
Arranged by
Cha[rle]s. Glover.

Lith. by Sarony, Major & Knapp, 449 Broadway, N.Y.
New York: Wm. A. Pond & Co., 547 Broadway
Boston: O. DITSON & CO.
Albany: J. H. HIDLEY.
Buffalo: BLODGETT & BRADFORD.
Milwaukee: J. N. HEMPSTED.
[April 10, 1863]
[COPYRIGHT
Nov 3 1863
LIBRARY]
[53]
[M 1640
  G.]
[Plate no.] 5524
[Source: civilwardigital.com]

1. We’re coming Father Abram, One hundred thousand more,
Five hundred presses printing us from morn till night is o’er;
Like magic, you will see us start and scatter thro’ the land
To  pay the soldiers or release the border contraband,

CNORUS 1.
With our promise to pay, “How are you Secretary Chase?”
Promise to pay, Oh! dat’s what’s de matter.

2. We’re coming, Father Abram, One hundred thoudand more,
And cash was n’er so easily evok’d from rags before;
To line the fat contractors purse, or purchase transport craft
Whose rotten hulks shall sink before the winds begin to waft,

CHORUS 2.
With our promises to pay, “How are you Gideon Welles, Esquire?”
Promise to pay, Oh! can’t you fix the date? 

3. We’re coming, Father Abram, one hundred thousand more,
I hope a present blessing, though perhaps a future foe;
The simple terms on which we come, are hardly worth a fuss,
Now, Abe, as we may father you, I hope you’ll Father us,

CHORUS 3.
With your promise to pay, How are you “Cousin Postage Stamps”
Promise to pay— No more Rappahannock’s.

4. We’re willing, Father Abram, one hundred thoudand more
Should help our Uncle Samuel to prosecute the way,
But then we want a chieftain true, one who can lead the van,
George B. McClellan, you all know, he is the very man.

CHORUS 4.
With his Potomac Army Grand, Peace once more will smile on us,
His Potomac Army Grand, Three cheers for little Mac.

5. We’re coming, Father Abram, one hundred thousand more,
To march with goeaming bayonets upon the traitor’s shore,
But you must give us Generals on whom we can depend,
And let paper Generals, drive off our faithful men,

CHORUS 5.
With our promise to pay, How are you “Bull Run Russell:”
Promise to pay— “Pop goes the weasel.”

6. We’re coming, Father Abram, nine hiundred thousand strong,
With nine hundred thousand darkies, sure the traitors can’t last long
With Corporal Cuff, and Sergeant Pomp, to lead us in the melee,
And at their head, without a red, Our Brigadier General Greely,

CHORUS 6.
With our promise to pay, How are you “Greely’s subscription list”
Promise to pay— “Nip up de dooden doo.”

7. We’re coming, Father Abram, nine hundred thousand more,
With the greatest fighting hero, that lives upon our shore;
He fought in all the battles won, and shed his blood most freely,
But he’s fought them with the Tribune, and his name is Gen’l Greely.

CHORUS 7.
With our promise to pay, How are you “Black Brigade”
Promise to pay— Three cheers for Father Abe!
