"Keeo Me Awake Mother" [1863]
BALLAD.
Words by
Mrs. M. W. STRATTON.
Music by
JOS[eph]. HART DENCK.

Published by
JULIAN A. SELBY.
Columbia, S. C.
B. DUNCAN & CO., Lith. Columbia, SC.
[Source: civilwardigital.com]

1. Forward! oh forward! time stays not his flight,
I’m older and wiser and sadder to might,
Mother dear mother I see thee no more,
But watch me oh watch me again as of yore;
Let me not slumber but gaze on life’s cares
with the look of defiance a warrior wears.
Once more to thy bosom a weary one take
Keep me awake mother keep me awake.

2. I’m tired of earth, and I’m tired of life—
It’s unfulfilled hopes— it’s profitless strife;
Still must I onward, my destiny calls,
Though trouble betides, or danger calls,
My lifepath is covered with gloom and decay,
But let me not falter, or sleep by the way,
Of glory and honor, a name let me make,
Keep me awake, mother, keep me awake.

3. Give me stern power of frame and of soul
To meet the troubles that over me roll,
Let me not murmur, though working I be
For those whom I see not— never may see;
Let me plant trees tho’ they flourish and bloom
When I am away in a faroff tomb,
For those who are coming, care let me take,
Keep me awake, mother, keep me awake.

4. Dreams of my childhood have faded or flown,
Objects I cherished, repulsive have grown,
All things seem fleeting, no pleasure endures,
But mother, dear mother, the same lot was yours;
Such dreaming, such mounring, hoping and trust,
Such crumbling of airbuilt castles to dust,
Bravely as thou didst, my part let me take,
Keep me awake, mother, keep me awake.

5. Awake to my duties, awake to my trust,
Let me do my task bravely, if toil I must,
But sometimes, oh sometimes, in dreams let me be
The child again, mother, who slept on your knee;
Wipe out for a moment my story of life,
Its struggles, its sorrows, follies and strife,
Some season of pleasure, of rest, let me take,
Then wake me, my mother, oh keep me awake.

6. And mother, dear mother, when life’s nearly o’er,
And God calls my home to the “echoless shore,”
My tasks are all done, and my busy brain still—
And I have no longer a power or will—
Oh then, blessed spirit, oh then hover near,
And smooth from my brow the dark shadows of fear,
Then linger near, mother, to watch and to weep,
Then “rock me to sleep, mother, rock me to sleep.”
