"Lanigan's Ball" (1863)
The Popular Irish Song.
Sung with Enthusiastic Applause, by Dan Bryant, 
of Bryants' Minstrels, New York
Music by Neil Bryant. 
Words by Tony Pastor. 
Arranged for the Piano Forte
by Charles [W.] Glover[, 1806 - 23 Mar 1863]

Tony Pastor Charles Glover Publication: 
New York: William A. Pond & Co., No. 547 Broadway
Plate Number: 5587
[Source: 024/058@Levy]

1. In the town of Athol, lived one Jimmy Lanigan, 
He bather’d away ’till he had’nt a pound; 
His father he died and made him a man again, 
Left him a farm or ten acres of ground. 
He gave a large party to all his relations 
That stood beside him when he went to the wall; 
So if you but listen, I’ll make your eyes glisten 
With the rows and the ruptions at Lanigan’s ball! 

CHORUS [sung after each verse]
Whack! fal, lal, fal, lal, tal, ladeddy; 
Whack! fal,. lal, fal, lal, tal, ladeddy; 
Whack! fal, lal, fal, lal, tal, ladeddy; 
Wack! hurroo! for Lanigan’s ball.

2. ’Twas meself had free invitations
For all the boys and girls I might ask,
In less than five minutes, I’d frinds and relations,
Singing as merry as flies round a cask.
Kitty O’Harra, a nate little millner,
Tipt me the wink, and ask’d me to call,
Whin I arrived with Timothy Galligan,
Just in time for Lanigan’s ball.

3. Whin we got there they were dancing the Polka,
All round the room in a quare whirligig;
But Kitty and I put a sthop to this nonsinse,
We tipt thim a taste of a nate Irish jig;
Oh! Mavrone, wasn’t she proud of me,
We “lather’d the flare” till the ceiling did fall,
For I spent three weeks at Brook’s Academy,
Larning a step for Lanigan’s ball.

4. The boys were all merry, the girls were frisky,
Drinking together in couples and groups,
Whin an accident happen’d to Paddy O’Rafferty,
He stuck his right fist thro’ Miss Flanigan’s hoops;
The craythur she fainted, and roared “millia murther!”
Called for her frinds and gatherd thim all,
Tim Dermody swore that he’d go no further,
But have satisfaction at Lanigan’s ball.

5. Och! arrah boys but thin was the ruptions,
Meself got a wollop from Phelim McCoo,
Soon I replied to his nate introduction,
And we kicked up the divil’s own phillilaloo.
Casey the piper, he was nearly strangled,
They squeezed up his bags, chaunters and all;
The girls in their ribbons all got entangled,
And that put a stop to Lanigan’s ball.

6. In the midst of the raw, Miss Kavanah fainted,
Her face all the while was as red as a rose;
The ladies declared her cheeks they were painted,
But she’d taken a drop too much, I suppose.
Paddy Macaty, so hearty and able
When he saw his dear colleen stretched out in the hall,
He pulled the best leg out from under the table,
And broke all the chaney at Lanigan’s ball.
