To J.A. Herman.
"Mother Would Comfort Me" (1863)
Song and Chorus.
Words and Music Composed by Charles Carroll Sawyer.

NOTE.--A Soldier in one of the New York regiments,
after being severly wounded, was taken prisoner; and
after lying in the hospital for a number of days, he was
told by those who were in attendance that "they could
do no more for him," that he must die. For a few moments
the poor fellow seemed in deep thought; reviving a little,
he turned slowly toward those near him, and after thanking
them for the kind manner in which they had treated him
during his sickness, a sweet smile passed over his pale
face, and with a firm voice he said, "MOTHER WOULD
COMFORT ME, IF SHE WERE HERE." Those were
his last words.

Brooklyn, N.Y.: Sawyer & Thompson, 59 Fulton Avenue
Electrotyped by Smith & McDougal, 82 and 84 Beekman St., N.Y.
[Source: 089/038@Levy]

1. Wounded and sorrowful, far from my home, 
Sick among strangers, uncared for, unknown; 
Even the birds that used sweetly to sing 
Are silent, and swiftly have taken the wing. 
No one but Mother can cheer me today, 
No one for me could so fervently pray; 
None to console me, no kind friend is near— 
Mother would comfort me if she were here. 

CHORUS [sung after each verse]
Greatly her hand oíer my forehead sheíd press, 
Trying to free me from pain and distressl 
Kindly sheíd say to me, “Be of good cheer, 
Mother will comfort you, Mother is here!”

2. If she were with me, I soon would forget
My pain and my sorrow, no more would I fret;
One kiss from her lips, or one look from her eye,
Would make me contented, and willing to die!
Gently her hand o’er my forehead sheíd press,
Trying to free me from pain and distress;
Kindly sheíd say to me, “Be of good cheer.
Mother will comfort you, Mother is here!”

3. Cheerfully, faithfully, Mother would stay
Always beside me, by night and by day;
If I should murmur or wish to complain,
Her gentle voice would soon calm me again.
Sweetly a Mother’s love shines like a star,
Brightest in darkness, when daylightís afar;
In clouds or in sunshine, pleasure or pain,
Mother’s affection is ever the same.
