"Rebel Kingdom Falling" (1863)
Song & Chorus.
Words and Music by E.P. Noyes.

Cleveland: S. Brainard & Co., 203 Superior Street
Plate Number: 1541
[Source: 089/142@Levy]

1. The Rebels have sworn the South to defend, 
Awaving their swords on high, 
They swore the last ounce of powder they’d spend, 
And in the last ditch they’d die. 
They swore by the black, and they swore by the blue, 
They swore by the Stars and the Bars, 
That never they’d fly from a Yankee crew, 
While they were the sons of Mars.

CHORUS 1-5 [sung after verses 1-5]
Their kingdom now is falling. 
They soon will loose their power; 
Their kingdom now is falling, (falling, falling,)
Falling, to rise no more. 

2. We whipped them out at Donelson, 
At Mill-Spring and Pea-Ridge, 
At Reanoke, Pittsburg and Island No. 10, 
At Royal and Canley Bridge. 
Of their cities we’ve taken more than a score, 
Their kingdom soon will cease, 
They tremble now who bravely swore, 
They’d whip five Yankees a-piece.

3. Sir Farragut went with a mighty fleet, 
To the Crescent City went he, 
And the Rebels instantly began to retreat, 
Before the first beat they could see. 
Of Vicksburgh’s strength they made their boast 
“To take it ’tis useless to try.” 
But Grant went down with his Yankee host, 
And took it the Fourth of July.

4. Oh! a wonder it was to see them rue, 
A wonderful thing to see, 
When Mead went forth with sword and gun, 
And chased the Rebel Lee. 
John Morgan kept running all day and night, 
As through the North went he, 
He tried his best to excape by fight, 
But find it too late to flee.

5. Rosecranse has chased their Bragg 
Out of Tennessee, 
And Gillmore won’t permit their flag 
To wave o’er Fort Moultrie. 
We’ll plant our flag all over the land, 
The traitorous foe must yield, 
For we’ll pursue with mighty hand, 
Until they quit the field.

6. And now, ye Rebels of the South, 
You’d better save your breath, 
Before the Freemen of the North 
Have whipped you all to death. 
Your kingdom now is falling fast, 
Jeff totters on his throne. 
If you ever wish for peace, 
Let Uncle Sam alone.

CHORUS 6 [sung after last verse]
Your kingdom now is falling, (falling, falling,)
You soon will loose your power;
Your kingdom now is falling, (falling, falling),
Falling, to rise  no more.
