Dedicated to the Brave Soldiers of Indiana.
"Tread Lighty Ye Comrades, 
or The Volunteers Grave"
(25 Mar 1863)
Song & Chorus.
Words by Annie
Melody suggested by Miss Sadie Crane. 
Arrangement by Mrs. F. L. Bowen.

Chicago: Root & Cady, 95 Clark St.
Cleveland: S. Brainard & Co.
Milwaukee: H. N. Hempsted
Plate Number: 269 5
[Source: 090/083@Levy]

1. Tread lightly, ye comrades, his lone grave around, 
Those ashes are sacred, and sacred the ground; 
The one of earth’s nobles, so gallant and brave, 
That here lies asleep, in the Volunteer’s Grave. 
He’s fought his last battle, the vict’ry he’s won; 
And now, the brave soldier is resting alone; 
His young life was given, his country to save, 
And low here he lies, in the Volunteer’s Grave.

CHORUS [sung after each verse]
Disturb not, (disturb not) his rest, calm and deep; 
The last trumpet, only, shall wake him from sleep.

2. “O fold me,” he said, “in the flag of the free, 
And let our own banner my winding sheet be; 
And when I am resting O leave it to wave, 
To point to the stranger the Volunteer’s Grave. 
The sad news break gentle, to Mother, and Kate; 
They’re seriously waiting my coming to greet, 
But tell them, I fell with the gallant and brave; 
And angels will watch o’er the Volunteer’s Grave.” 
 

3. The battle was over, they laid him to rest; 
The turf they plac’d gently above his young breast, 
Then rais’d up the banner, and left it to wave 
In brightness undimm’d o’er the Volunteer’s Grave. 
O sad were the tidings they bore to his home, 
That, far from his loved ones, they’d left him alone, 
With nought but the banner he died for, to wave 
So silent and sad, o’er the Volunteer’s Grave.

4. Ah, how many households are broken and sad; 
That sigh for the loved ones, and weep for the dead; 
Whose life blood has purpled the field of the brave, 
And who now repose in the Volunteer’s Grave. 
And Oh tho’ no marble may point to the spot, 
Where bravely they’re fallen they’ll not be forgot, 
For o’er them our banner forever shall wave, 
Encircling with glory the Volunteer’s Grave.
