"The Merrill Horse" (1863)
(or, The Guerrillas Conquered)
an HISTORICAL BALLAD of the WAR against
GUERRILLAS in Nth EAST MISSOURI
written & composed by POLYHYMNIA
& dedicated to the regiment of
MERRIL HORSE
Saint Louis.

1.
The "Merrill Blue Caps" have been out in the field,
  And have chased the wild foe to his den;
They have conquer'd Poindexter, caused Porter to yield,
  And peace reigns triumphant again.
Missouri, the star-link of State now is free
  Wherever the "Blue Caps" have been;
All glory and honor to Merrill shall be,
  He's the Champion and pride of his men.

All glory and honor to Merrill shall be,
  He's the Champion and pride of his men.

2.
Where many vile rebels lay biting the dust,
  And Major Hunt charged in the van[?].
The guerrilla chief monster entrench'd in his den,
  Lay waiting to deal the death blow,
But routed and whipp'd, their chief, Poindexter, fled,
  While "Merrill's Horse" charg'd on the foe.
But routed and whipp'd, their chief, Poindexter, fled,
  While "Merrill's Horse" charg'd on the foe.

But routed and whipp'd, their chief, Poindexter, fled,
  While "Merrill's Horse" charg'd on the foe.


3.
Next to the death-knell at Memphis they're called
  To cope with their thrice maddened foes,
Where steel meets with steel each foe is appalled
  At the death groans, as crimson blood floes.
But Robinson thrice had led on to the charge,
  When balls pierced his side, and he fell.
Ere leaving his Major to charge with his men,
  "'Tis the last," said he "Major, farewell."

Ere leaving his Major to charge with his men,
  "'Tis the last," said he "Major, farewell."


4.
The battle was ended, the foe left the field,
  The gain was but loss to us then---
But, true to our cause, and sworn never to yield,
  We resolved to fight Porter again.
On! onward we trailed him as southward he roamed,
  Till at Moore's Mill the contest began,
Where rifle balls whistled and dread cannon moaned,
  To the music of Guitar's bold plan.

Where rifle balls whistled and dread cannon moaned,
  To the music of Guitar's bold plan.

5.
Four hours Porter fought, feeling sure of success,
  Till our presence to him was made known;
"Great God!" cried the guerrilla, "the Blue Caps play chess,
  I will fight the Militia or none!"
His lines broke asunder, his comrades dismayed,
  To the victors the battle field gave,
And proudly the "Blue Caps" in armor arrayed,
  Cried "Our banner forever shall wave."

And proudly the "Blue Caps" in armor arrayed,
  Cried "Our banner forever shall wave."

6.
At Kirksville the death stroke to Porter was played,
  And hundreds of rebels licked dust;
The guerrilla bands scattered, their leaders estrayed,
  Their cause since forever seems lost;
There the heartless you Coudrey dashed unto the foe
  Where hall-showers of lead rest the air,
And laughing at smoke clouds and armor's bright glow,
  Seemed pleased at the conflict of war.

And laughing at smoke clouds and armor's bright glow,
  Seemed pleased at the conflict of war.

7.
Once more the land-pirates assembled their bands,
  But Hunt and the "Blue Caps" were there,
And near Compton's Ferry the chased the brigands,
  Entrusting some lead to their care;
Suprised at such fare, a skedaddle began,
  Into Grand River, pell-mell went they,
Instead of retreating the Butternuts ran,
  And the daring "Blue Caps" won the day.

Instead of retreating the Butternuts ran,
  And the daring "Blue Caps" won the day.

8.
Our Colors and Standard these names bear aloft,
  'Wid the battle red banners of fame,
And as oft as we can, while a rebel is left,
  We will add our stripes a new name.
While a star or a stripe to our flag-staff belongs,
  Any foe of our ensign will meet,
We'll protect it, adore it, and praise it in songs,
  Or make it our last winding sheet.

We'll protect it, adore it, and praise it in songs,
  Or make it our last winding sheet.
