To Major General Rosecrans:
"The Roll of Honor" (1863)
Poetry by T. Buchanan Read,
Music by George Harlow

Cincinnati: John Church, Jr., 66 West Fourth Street
Plate No. 426-3
Engraver: J. J. L.
[Source: 089/159@Levy]

Verse_Lyric: 1
Like the lordly Mississippi, we are sweeping to the South, 
A mighty Union river, and the Gulf shall be its mouth, 
O’er our front wave floats our banner boys, that leads to glory’s goal, 
And at its side in martial pride is borne the Honor Roll.    

Chorus_Lyric: 1
On the Roll of Honor boys, 
On the Roll of Honor boys, 
Oh let us see our names shall be 
on the Roll of Honor boys.

Verse_Lyric: 2
Like a great wind we drive southward, with a storm of northern hail,
And our banner rides before us, as cloud upon the gale,
We will tear from out the rebel’s hold, his stolen stars and bars,
And fame shall see our names carolled, beneath the stripes and stars.

Chorus_Lyric: 2
On the Roll of Honor, boys, 
on the Roll of Honor, boys, 
And fame shall see our names willl be 
on the Roll of Honor, boys.

Verse_Lyric: 3
With this great gale sweeping southward, daily come the gentle airs
Of our Father’s words of courage, and our Mother’s constant prayers,
With them our wives and sweethearts, with a love beyond control,
Are reading in their fancy, boys, the names on Honor’s Roll.

Chorus_Lyric: 3
On the Roll of Honor, boys, 
on the Roll of Honor, boys, 
Oh, let them see our names will be 
on the Roll of Honor, boys.

Verse_Lyric: 4
And when the last armed rebel falls and bites his native dust,
When waves o’er every mile of land the banner or our trust,
We’ll return to those whose images are shrined within the soul,
And proudly listen while they read our names on Honor’s Roll.

Chorus_Lyric: 4
On the Roll of Honor, boys, 
on the Roll of Honor, boys, 
And they shall see our names will be 
on the Roll of Honor, boys.

Verse_Lyric: 5
When the twilight settles round us in life’s evening cool and gray,
Among our children’s children, we’ll describe the battle day,
They’ll cluster to our knees to hear the story never old,
And watch our trembling, veteran hands, point out the names carolled.

Chorus_Lyric: 5
On the Roll of Honor, boys, 
on the Roll of Honor, boys, 
Oh they shall see our names will be 
on the Roll of Honor, boys.

Verse_Lyric: 6
And when at last Death’s night comes on and stops the battle din,
And we have conquered in our hearts the rebel hosts of Sin,
To the fields of Peace above us, may we march there, soul to soul,
And find our names emblazoned on the great Celestial Roll.

Chorus_Lyric: 6
On the Roll of Honor, boys, 
on the Roll of Honor, boys, 
Oh let us see our names will be 
on the Roll of Honor, boys.
