"The Southern Cross" (1863)
[21625; M1642.P]
Song
Words by St. George Tucker
Music by C. L. Peticolas

Richmond, VA: George Dunn & Company, P. O. Box 991
Columbia, SC: Julian A. Selby
[Source: 200002459@LoC/IHAS-CWM]

1. Oh! say can you see, through the gloom and the storm, 
More bright for the darkness, that pure constellation, 
Like the symbol of love, and redemption, its form, 
As it points to the haven of hope for the nation. 
How radiant each star, as they beacon afar, 
Giving promise of peace or assurance in war. 
’Tis the Cross of the South which shall ever remain, 
To light us to Freedom and Glory again, 
To light us to Freedom and Glory again.

2. How peaceful and blest was America’s soil,
’Til betrayed by the guile of the Puritan demon,
Which lurks under Virtue, and springs from its coil,
To fasten its fangs in the life blood of Freemen.
Then loudly appeal, to each heart that can feel,
And crush the foul Viper ’neath Liberty’s heel;
And the Cross of the South shall for ever remain,
To light us to Freedom and Glory again,
To light us to Freedom and Glory again.

3. ’Tis the emblem of peace, ’tis the daystar of hope;
Like the sacred Labarum, which guided the Roman,
From the shores of the Gulf to the Delaware’s slope,
’Tis the trust of the Free and the terror of Foemen--
Fling its folds to the air, while we boldly declare,
The rights we demand, or the deeds that we dare;
And the Cross of the South shall forever remain,
To light us to Freedom and Glory again,
To light us to Freedom and Glory again.

4. But if peace should be hopeless, and justice denied,
And war’s bloody vulture should flap his black pinions,
Then gladly to arms! while we hurl in our pride,
Defiance to Tyrants, and death to their minions;
With our front to the field, swearing never to yield,
Or return like the Spartan, in death on our shield,
And the Cross of the South shall triumphantly wave,
As the flag of the Free, or the pall of the brave,
As the flag of the Free, or the pall of the brave. 

