"The Old Bachelor" (circa 1829)
2d. Edition. 
Written and Dedicated 
to the 
Author of The Old Maid. 
by T. Bayly
[Thomas Haynes Bayly, 1797-1829]

Philadelphia: Fiot, Meignen & Co., 264 Market St. near 8th
C.A. Watson del.
Printed by Lehman & Duval 
Lith. By J.F. & C.A. Watson, Philad. 
Plate number: 3 
[Source: 048/049@Levy]

1. When I was a schoolboy aged ten, 
Oh! mighty little greek I knew; 
With my short strip’d trousers and now and then, 
With stripes upon my jacket too! 
When I saw either boys to the playground run, 
I threw my old grados by,  
And I left the task I had scarce begun, 
“There’ll be time enough for that” said I. 
“There’ll be time enough for that” said I.

2. When I was at college my pride was drear,
And my groom and bit of blood; 
But as for my study, I must confess,
That I was content with my stud:
I was deep in my tradesmen’s books, I’m afraid;
Tho’ not in my own, by the bye;
And when rascally tailors came to be paid,
“There’ll be time enough for that” said I.
“There’ll be time enough for that” said I.

3. I was just nineteen when I first fell in love,
And I scribbl’d a deal of rhyme,
And I talk’d to myself in a shady grove,
And I thought I was quite sublime:
I was torn from my love! ’twas a dreadful blow,
And the Lady she wiped her eye;
But I didn’t die of grief Oh dear me no,
“There’ll be time enough for that” said I.
“There’ll be time enough for that” said I.

4. The next was a lady of rank, a Dame,
With blood in her veins you see;
With the leaves of the Peerage she fann’d the flame,
That now was consuming me:
But tho’ of her great descent she spoke,
I found she was still very high;
And I thought looking up to a wife no joke,
“There’ll be time enough for that” said I.
“There’ll be time enough for that” said I.

5. My next penchant was for one whose face,
Was her fortune, she was so fair!
Oh! she spoke with an air of enchanting grace,
But a man cannot live upon air;
And when poverty enters the door, young love,
Will out of the casement fly;
The truth of the proverb I’d so wish to prove,
“There’ll be time enough for that” said I.
“There’ll be time enough for that” said I.

6. My next was a Lady who lov’d romance,
And wrote very splendid things;
And she said with a snear when I ask’d her to dance,
”Sir I ride upon a horse with wings.”
There was ink on her thumb when I kissed her hand,
And she whisper’d “If you should die,
I will write you an epitaph glossy and grand.”
“There’ll be time enough for that” said I.
“There’ll be time enough for that” said I.

7. I left her and sported my figure and face,
At Opera party and ball;
I met pretty girls at ev’ry place,
But I found a defect in all!
The first did not suit me I cannot tell how,
The second I cannot say why;
And the third, bless me I will not marry now,
“There’ll be time enough for that” said I.
“There’ll be time enough for that” said I.

8. I look’d in the glass, and I thought I could trace,
A sort of a wrinkle or two;
So I made up my mind that I’d make up my face,
And come out as good as new.
To my hair I imparted a little more jet,
And I scarce could suppress a sigh,
But I cannot be quite an old Bachelor yet,
“No there’s time enough for that” said I.
“No there’s time enough for that” said I.

9. I was now fifty one, yet I still did adopt,
All the airs of a juvenile beau,
But some how whenever a question I popp’d,
The girls with a laugh said “No,”
I am sixty today and a very young man,
And a bachelor doom’d to die;
So youths be advised and marry while you can,
“There’s no time to be lost” say I.
“There’s no time to be lost” say I.
