"Ode, for 4th July, 1834." [4 Jul 1834]
Air, Adams and Liberty.
[From the poem "Adams and Liberty"
by Robert Treat Pain Jr. (1798)]
[Music from "To Anacreon in Heaven"
by John Stafford Smith (1778)]
[Arranged--anonymous.]

[Publisher--unknown]
[Source: 015/025@Levy]

1. Come strike the bold paean! let the organ’s soft note,
Beat in unison here, with the patriot’s voice,
O’er the green hills of freedom! our banners wild float;
In our God and our Country, O! let us rejoice.
  Strike joyful the strain,
  Hills and mountains again,
Shall reecho the note, thro’ the valley and plain;
But remember the hour, and remember the band,
Who sav’d from the grasp of the despot, our land.

CHORUS 1
But remember the  hour, and remember the band,
Who sav’d from the grasp of the despot our land.


2. When toss’d on the ocean, by the tempest rude driven,
Our fathers, the home of liberty sought,
Like the oaks of the forest, by the lighning deep riven,
They quailed not, but for freedom most valiantly fought,
  Oppression’s strong arm,
  Ne’er their hearts could alarm,
Nor the pride of a monarch, could a firearm disarm.
Oh remember the hour, and remember the  band,
Who saved from the grasp of the despot, our land.

CHORUS 2
Oh remember the hour, and remember the  band,
Who saved from the grasp of the despot, our land.

3. Their sons, with their virtues, now fully inspired,
Oh never, the guerdon of freedom shall yield,
With hearts with the glow of liberty fired,
In defence of Columbia, shall ne’er quit the field.
  Renewedly this day,
  Tributes of homage we’ll pay,
To the heroes who for us, pour’d their life blood away.
Oh remember the hour, and remember the band,
Who saved from the grasp of the despot, our land.

CHORUS 3
Oh remember the hour, and remember the band,
Who saved from the grasp of the despot, our land.

4. Tho’ still be their footsteps, tho’ hush’d be their voice,
Their virtues, undying shall live,
And ages on ages, shall rapture rejoice,
And new lustre unceasingly give,
  To the names of the brave,
  Who on land, or on wave,
For independence and freedom, ne’er fliched from the grave.
Oh remember the hour, and remember the band,
Who saved from the grasp of the despot, our land.

CHORUS 4
Oh remember the hour, and remember the band,
Who saved from the grasp of the despot, our land.

5. As the streams from our mountains, shall pour their rich flood,
As the sky that is o’er us, with beauty shall glow,
Every height, like old Bunker, shall be drenched in our blood,
Ere we bow to the sceptre, or yield to the foe.
  There ere we depart,
  Let us pledge with one heart,
From our homes and our country we never will part,
While we remember the hour, and remember the band,
Who saved from the grasp of the despot, our land.

CHORUS 5
While we remember the hour, and remember the band,
Who saved from the grasp of the despot, our land.
