"The Tee-To-Tal Society" (1840)
Comic Song

[Captions to artwork:]
"His fireside in fact, was the picture of happiness"
"The sanctifies [Phi.?] of the Fellow persuaded him""
"The man who drinks water I'd have made a Pump of"
"When winter came on his great coat he grew thin in"
"His inside was stuffed full of the Tea Leaves and Snow Balls"

As Sung with the Greatest Applause
by Mr. Chapman at the Park Theatre
[Words and Music -- anonymous]
Arranged for the Piano Forte
by George De Luce

New York, NY: [J. F.] ATWILL, 201 Broadway
N. Currier's Lith., N. Y.
[Source: 056/084@LoC]

1. I’m come to exhort you so free, all you that so fond of the bottle, are,
And when you my argumen see, ev’ry one will become a TEETOTALER
Of Gin, Brandy, Rum, Wine or Beer, to drink, is a great impropriety
Of trash, I’d have you steer clear, and join the TEETOTAL SOCIETY.

2. An old man that was troubled with corns, that scarcely the stairs could he hobble up,
He used to drink beer out of horns, and all sorts of liquors would gobble up.
His corns have all left one by one, and now he’s the pink of sobriety.
And pray how was this done? WHY? he joined the TEETOTAL SOCIETY.

3. Tother day my young pigs and old sow, I found to be far gone in liquor,
In my family I can’t allow, to temperance being a sticker,
They had with grain from the brewer been fed, but now they shall share in sobriety
Coffee grounds and tea leaves instead, and they shall join the TEETOTAL SOCIETY.

4. A Teetotaler t’other day died, the doctor his friend did entice out
Examined his stomach inside, and they say took a large lump of ice out.
This cant be true, for if ever we are ill, of Brandy, we take a small moiety
And melt ice you know, Brandy it will, it has been tried by the TEETOTAL SOCIETY.

5. I wander about doing good, our society pays all my charges
Preaching two hours at least, to coal heavers working on barges
But they said “if you carried our coals, of beer you’ll soon see the propriety”
But ah! they are sad wicked souls, they wont join the TEETOTAL SOCIETY.

6. Folks ask what makes my nose so red? I’ll tell and end all this puzzling,
It a’nt drink what gets in my head, its blushing to see so much guzzling,
Drops of Brandy we take two or three, as medicine and no impropriety
And put some in our gruel and tea, its allowed by the TEETOTAL SOCIETY.

7. The people laugh at me oh! dear, and puts my mind in sad order works
And cries out whenever I appear, “how gets on the Temperance water works”
But I tells them I dont care dump, and preaches away on sobriety
And for example drinks out of the pump, since I joined the TEETOTAL SOCIETY.

8. In our progress there’s nothing excells, in our efforts— we never do slumber, sir,
We have dug six and fifty new wells! and erected of pumps a great number, sir,
I have here some Temperance tracts, of a most gratifying variety
That record some most wonderful facts, about the TEETOTAL SOCIETY.

9. A drunken beggar I very well know, quite lame and as thin as a rat he was
Led by a dog he would go, through the streets, for blind as a bat he was.
You’ll scarcely believe what I say, he’s now the pink of sobriety.
He’s got fat and can see as clear as day, since he joined the TEETOTAL SOCIETY.

10. One night in my house every week, I holds forth on the beauties of Temperance
Because when in public I speak, I’m subject to a good deal of imperance.
After a lecture on Coffee they sup, on Tea if they like for variety.
I charge a shilling a cup, since I joined the TEETOTAL SOCIETY.
