"The Union Hymn" (9 Jul 1840)

E Pluribus Unum
Tippecanoe   1815  New Orleans
Champlain    1819  Erie
Trenton      1783  Yorktown
Bunker Hill  1776  Brandywine

     Union
East       South
North      West
 Liberty  Law

a new national anthem
the poetry and melody composed by
Flaccus.
Arranged by Charles Edward Horn, 1786-1849. 
Constition 1767

New York: Charles Edward Horn, 367 Broadway
[Sources: 1840-371120@LoC; 016/092@Levy]

1. When o’er the wide land terrorclouds were rolling, 
When tyrant rulers threatend to enslave. 
What did our fathers in that fearful trial 
Weak, scattered, few— their precious rights to save? 
Now with desponding, now with desparing, 
Did the bold freeman meet the tempestglast; 
But sole man, firm, with hearts and hands united, 
Life, fortune, honour staked upon the east. 

REFRAIN [sung after each VERSE]
Then rally round the starflag! sons and heirs of freemen— 
All chains we spurn save such as brothers bind! 
Oh! sacred Union! marriage tie of Heaven— 
Who dare divorce what God himself has joined 

CHORUS [sung after each REFRAIN]
Then hail, hail, to Union!— sole chain of freemen! 
Stones of one arch, one common fate we’ll find: 
Together! together! A band of brothers all— 
Together will we stand or fall!

[1776-1783.]
2. When rendering cannon pealed their dreadful thunder,
When hireling legions stained the sacred soil,
What did our fathers in that hour appalling—
Halfarmed, unused to front the battleboil?
Not by retreating from the frightful carnage
Did the true soldiers yield the sod to slaves;
But linked together shoulder to shoulder
Bore their invaders back upon the waves.


[1804-1805.]
3. When thwarted traitors sought our bands to sunder,
When party frensy shook the lands extremes,
What did our fathers when the clouds of treason
Hung o’er our stars and dimmed their rising beams?
Not to ambition yielding falsehearted
Were the true patriots tempted by the spoil;
North, South, and West in phalanx staunch, unbroken,
Spurned their false friends and hissed them from the soil.

[1812-1815.]
4. When crashing broadsides o’er the waves were booming,
When haughty fleets our commerce would dismay,
What did our fathers when the lords of ocean
Bade them surrender to their sovreign sway?
Not basely yielding to the lofty summons
Did the bold seamen from the struggle flee;
But to the rent mast nailed th’insulted standard
And round it rallying set the ocean free.

[2776.]
5. Firm linked and true in every coming danger,
War, civil broil, or treason’s dreader pest,
Still like our fathers will we cling to Union—
Hold but to that and Heaven will do the rest!—
Year after year along our dazzling banner
New stars uprising swell the clustered flame:
Nations benighted hail the constellation—
Beacon of Freedom on the heights of Fame!
