"The Fine Ould
Irish Gintleman," (1845)
Written and Sung by
John Brougham, [1814-1880]
and by him dedicated, to his friend
Oliver C. Wyman,
of Boston.

Boston: Geo[rge]. P. Reed. 17 Tremont Row
Bufford & Co's Lith.
Price 25 cts net.
[Source: 049/020@Levy]

1. I’ll sing you a fine ould song made by a fine ould Paddy’ pate,
Of a fine Ould Irish Gintleman who had the devil a taste of an estate,
Except a fine old patch of pitaty’s that he liked exceedinly to ate
For they were beef to him and mutton too and barring a red herring
or a rusty rasher of bacon now and thin almost ev’ry other sort of mate
Yet this Fine Ould Irish Gintleman was one of the rale ould stock.

2. His cabin walls were cover’d o’er with fine ould Irish mud,
Because he couldn’t afford to have any paper hangings,
and between you and me he wouldn’t give a pin for them if he could
And just as proud as Julious Sayzer or Alixander the great,
This independent ragamuffin stood with a glass of fine ould Irish whiskey
in his fist when he decidedly of opinion will do a mighty dale of good,
To this fine ould Irish Gintleman, All of the rale ould stock.

3. Now dis fine ould Iris gintleman wore mighty curious clothes,
Tho’ for comfort I’ll be bail that they’d bate any of your fashionable beaux,
For when the sun was very hot the gintle wind right through
his ventilation garments most beautifully blows,
And he’s niver troubled with any corns and I’ll tell you why,
because he despises the wakeness of wearing anything as hard as
leather on his toes,
Yet this fine ould Irish gintleman was ne of the rale ould stock.

4. Now this fine ould Irish gintleman has a mighty curios knack,
Of flourishing a tremendous great shillaly in his hand
and letting it drop wich a most uncompromising whack,
So of most superiour shindies you may take your oath if you ever happen to be called upon
for it be very nearly never had a lack,
And it’s very natural and not at all surprising to suppose
that the fine ould Irish mud was well acquianted with the back
of this Fine Ould Irish Gintleman, All of the rale ould stock.

5. This fine ould Irish gintleman he was once out upon a spree,
And as many a fine ould Irish gintleman has done and more broken will do
to the end of time be got about as dhrunk as he could be,
His senses was complately mulvathered and the consequence
was that he could neither hear nor see,
So they thought he was stone dead and gone intirely,
So the best thing they could do would be to have him wake and buried dacintly,
Like a Fine Ould Irish Gintleman All of the rale ould stock.

6. So this fine ould Irish gintleman he was laid out upon a bed,
with half a dozen candles at his heels and two or three dozen
more or less about his head,
But when the whiskey bottle was uncorked he couldn’t stand it any longer
so he riz right up in bed,
and when sich mighty fine stuff as that is goin about says he
you don’t think I’d be such a soft headed fool as to be dead,
Oh this fine ould Irish Gintleman it was mighty hard to kill.
