[Recorded Vol. 20, Page 115
Deposited April 9, 1845]
[No. 9]
THE MAY QUEEN.
Cantata in Three Parts.
Poetry by
ALFRED[, Lord] TENNYSON, [1809-1892]
music composed and most cordially dedicated to
HIS FRIEND
Lewis Gaylord Clark Esq.
of New York
by
WILLIAM R[ichardson]. DEMPSTER. [1809-1871]

---
PART FIRST
Represents the May Queen, full of joyousness and hope on the
Eve of May Day.

PART SECOND
New Year[’]s Eve--declined in health, requesting her Mother
to call her to see the Sun rise up the New Year--a sight she
never expects to enjoy again.

PART THIRD
The return of Spring--still alive, when the first flowers are
out--"The beautiful Blue Violets”--expecting to die, with the
assurance of a blessed Imortality--informing her Mother and
sister Effie, that she has been called to Heaven by the Angels.

Boston, MA: OLIVER DITSON, 115 Washington St.
[MusicXML imported from SmartScore Lite 6 by Finale 2012.]
[Source: 401021@LoC (Part 1)]

[PART THE FIRST]
1. You must wake and call me early, call me early, mother dear;
Tomorrow will be the happiest time of all the glad NewYear;
Of all the glad Newyear, mother, the maddest, merriest day;
For I’m to be Queen o’ the May, mother, I’m to be Queen o’ the May.

2. I sleep so sound all night, mother, that I shall never awake,
If you do not call me loud when the day begins to break:
But I must gather knots of flowers, and buds and garlands gay,
For I’m to be Queen o’ the May, mother, I’m to be Queen o’ the May.

3. Little Effie shall go with me tomorrow to the green,
And youˆll be there too, mother, to see me made the Queen;
The shepherd lads on every side will come from far away,
And I’m to be Queen o’ the May, mother, I’m to be Queen o’ the May.

4. All the valley, mother, will be fresh, and green, and still,
And the cowslip and the crowfoot are over all the hill,
The rivulet in the flowery dale will merrily glance and play,
For I’m to be Queen oˆ the May, mother, I’m to be Queenj o. the May.

5. The night winds come and go, mother, upon the meadow grass,
And the happy stars above them seem to brighten as they pass;
There will not be a drop o’ rain the whole o’ the livelong day,
And I’m to be the Queen of May, mother, I’m tp be Queen o’ the May.

6. So you must wake and call me early, call me early, mother dear,
Tomorrow will be the happiest time of all the glad Newyear:
Tomorrow will be of all the year maddest, merriest day,
For I’m to be Queen o’ the May, mother, I’m to be Queen o’ the May.
