Sung at the Celebration of Thanksgiving 
in the Massachusetts State's Prison, 
November 26th, 1846.
"Song of the Convict" (26 Nov 1846)
Words by William Bradley
Music by James M. Bradley, 
Two Brothers: Prisoners.

Boston: James M. Bradley Publication
Published for the Proprietors of the "Prisoner's Friend," at 
Keith's Music Publishing House, 67 & 69 Court Street.
[Source: 032/095@levy]

1. Phillippi’s dark dungeons, with anthems are shaken, 
And notes of thanksgiving peal thro’ the night air; 
Oh! what can such joy in a Prison awaken? 
The friends and the spirits of Jesus are there;
There, angel mercy paints,
Mid rising, rising songs of saints,
The rainbow of Hope on the cloud of despair;
	There, angel mercy paints,
	’Mid rising, rising songs of saints,
	The rainbow of Hope on the cloud of despair.

2. That spirit of love on the earth still abiding, 
And soothing adversity, sorrow and pain, 
Now visit the captive, tho’ weak and backslidling, 
And raisen the fallen to virtue again.
Yes! here the gospel’s light
Shall break, shall break thro’ sorrow’s night,
And Satan bound souls be released from his chain;
	Yes! here the gospel’s light
	Shall break, shall brsak thro’ sorrow’s night,
	And Satan bound souls be released from his chain.

3. O! ye who have toil’d in this vinyard neglected, 
Our grat itude deep future life shall declare;
Still call back the erring, still cheer the dejected,
And Heaven will prosper your labor and care.
Soon will the Savior’s voice,
Make all, make all your hearts rejoice—
“I once was in prison, ye came to me there.”
	Soon will the Savior’s voice,
	Make all, make all your hearts rejoice—
	“I once was in prison, ye came to me there.”

4. Great God! in Thy mercy accept  our thanksgiving, 
Cleanse, pardon, and guide us as onward we move!
And when we shall pass from the land of the living,
Receive us through Jesus to mansions above.
Tho’ thus divided now,
Around, around Thy throne to bow,
And join the loud anthems of wonder and love.
	Tho’ thus divided now,
	Around, around Thy throne to bow,
	And join the loud anthems of wonder and love.
