"He Doeth All Things Well, or, My Sister" (26 Mar 1847)
A Ballad
Words by F. M. E.
Music by Isaac Baker Woodbury, 1819-1858
and respectfully dedicated to
Mrs. Follett.

Boston, MA: George P. Reed
[See the Bible, Mark 7:37]
[Source: 420550@LoC]

1. I remember how I lov’d her, when a little guiltless child, 
I saw her in the cradle as she look’d on me and smil’d.
My cup of happiness was full my joy words cannot tell;
And I bless’d the glorious Giver, “who doeth all things well”
And I bless’d the glorious Giver, “who doeth all things well.”

2. Months pass’d that bud of promise was unfolding ev’ry hour,
I thought that earth had never smil’d upon a fairer flow’r,
So beautiful it well might grace
The bow’rs where angels dwell
And waft its fragrance to His throne “who doeth all things well“
And waft its fragrance to His throne who doeth all things well.

3. Years fled— that little sister then was dear as life to me
And woke, in my unconscious heart, a wild idolatry,
I worshipped at an earthly shrine, lured by some magic spell,
Forgetfull of the praise of Him "who doeth all things well.”
Forgetfull of the praise of Him "who doeth all things well.”

4. She was the lovely star, where light around my pathway shone,
Amid this darksome vale of tears, through which I journey on,
Its radiance had obscured the light, which round His throne doth dwell,
And I wandered far away from Him, “who doeth all things well.”
And I wandered far away from Him, “who doeth all things well.”

5. That star went down in beauty— yet it shineth sweetly now,
In the bright and dazzling coronet, that docks the Savior’s brow,
She bowed to the Destroyer— whose shafts none may repel,
But we know, for God hath told us, “He doeth all things well.”
But we know, for God hath told us, “He doeth all things well.”

6. I remember well my sorrow, as I stood beside her bed,
And my deep and heartfelt anguish, when they told me she was dead;
And oh! that cup of bitterness— let not my heart rebel,
God gave— He took— He will receive— “He doeth all things well.”
God gave— He took— He will receive— “He doeth all things well.”
