"Old High Rock" (1847)
Arranged as a Song or Quartette
Poetry by
Jesse Hutchinson Jr.
Composed by
Judson J. Hutchinson

    The subject from which this song was taken is a famous
Range of Ledges situated in the town of Lynn nine miles from
Boston and four from Nahant and known as "Old High Rock" also
the favorite resort of the celebrated Fortune Teller "Moll
Pitcher."

Boston, MA: Stephen W. Marsh, Piano Forte Maker, No. 5 Adams House
Boston, MA: Martin & Beals, No. 184, Washington St.
J. H. Bufford's lith[ograper]., Boston, MA
[Source: 020/105@Levy]


1. In the State of Massachusetts, and the good old town of Lynn,
There’s a famous range of Ledges as eye hath rarely seen;
Two hundred feet the highest point, looms up its rugged block,
And is known throughout New England as “Old High Rock.”

2. Within three leagues of Boston, and of Nahant four miles,
This towering rock rears up its head and many an eye beguiles;
And through “Old Glorious Bunker” its grandeur fain would mock,
It hasn’t half the real worth of “Old High Rock.”

3. Till within two hundred years or so, as history doth tell,
Around this mighty precipice was heard the savage yell
And myriad Indian Warriors, in olden time did flock
To raise the War Whoop as they danced on “Old High Rock.”

4. Though centuries on time’s broad face have since then rolled between,
Yet traces of the Red man’s track distinctly can be seen;
And even now their shouting the tempests seem to mock,
As Sagamore sends forth command from “Old High Rock.”

5. And ’neath the very shadows of this monument of fame,
In byegone years, have thousands come to see one “Noted Dame;”
While tales of sad disaster, the feeling heart to shock,
Has Molly Pitcher told beside this “Old High Rock.”

6. Aye, thrilling are the legend tales connected with this mound,
And superstitious multitudes still think it hallowed ground,
Old matrons to their children in raptures now will talk
How Molly told their fortunes once at “Old High Rock.”

7. Upon this noted eminence, far o’er the ocean blue—
And a hundred miles of landscape the eye can clearly view—
Rocks, mountains, seas and rivers, the Painter here could chalk,
And sketch a scene the world to vie, from “Old High Rock.”

8. It is in contemplation to rear upon its site
A Telescope of mighty power to view the stars by night,
As with the Planets in ther course we’ll hold familiar talk
As we gaze into the heavenly world from “Old High Rock.”

9. The rocks and lands adjacent, with a garden and a cot,
When beautiful with flowers and trees, will make a splendid spot;
A summer house shall deck the bluff with a spire and a clock,
While a spring of living water flows from ”Old High Rock.”

10. When all is decorated and fitted to the mind,
A snug retreat from business cares the visitor may find,
The cottage door shall open to all the friends who knock,
And welcome make them feel at home at “Old High Rock.”

11. Believing in the promise that all the world who toil
Have an equal right and title to the products of the soil
Thus in the deed is written, “the Earth is common stock,”
And all the world shall own a share in “Old High Rock.”
