"Jumbo Jum" (1848)
An Original Nigger Ballad.

As Sung with unbounded applause 
By Mr. John Smith, 
The celebrated deleneator of Ethiopian Character, 
At the New York Circus, Mansion House Estate, Milk St. 

Arranged for the Piano Forte 
By an Eminent Professor

Boston: Henry Prentiss, 33 Court St.
R. Cooke del.; Thayer's Lithg.
Plate Number: 137
[Source: 020/016@Levy]

1. My name’s Jumbo Jum and I cum from Tennessee. 
I can fight, jump and wrestle by the double rule of three, 
Ev’ry morning very early this nigger can be seen 
Fireing up like the devil to raise a little steam, 
	Oh! look at exquisite shin! 
	Nigger you can’t begin. 
	Here to the Jay bird wing! 
	And the back action spring.

2. Oh! Nashville is a nice place as any in the nation.
And all, all the niggers work dare upon the plantation.
When the day’s work is done, they take hold of a fiddle.
They ballance to their partner and chassy down the middle.
	Oh! then you ought to see  the niggers
	Sporting dare elegant figures.
	I took em right on the wing
	When I cum the back action spring. 

3. Not a great way from Nashville, as snug as a mouse
Dare lives a great man in a very nice house.
Every body ought to cherish him you know what I mean.
It’s massa General Jackson of the battle of Orlean.
	I tell you ’twas mighty big fun
	When he pointed his blunderbuss gun.
	He made em all cum to a stand
	When he rowed up old Packenham.

4. I recollect well what old master used to say,
“Jumbo, if I lick, don’t you never run away.”
But one night he hit me wid a big corn stalk
And the first place I found myself was in New York.
	The niggers looked at me wid surprise.
	Oh! Moses, how they opened dare eyes.
	I nebber see darkeys so civil
	Though they all was as ugly as the devil.

5. There was a nigger wench and I thought I’d die
For when she looked at me, she give such a sigh.
I made an impression on the wenches feeling
That I set the coloured Lady in a big fit a reeling.
	She dropt right down on the floor
	In a state of agony you know.
	I kissed her gently on the chin.
	Says she, “pray do dat again.”

6. When the coloured Lady arose, upon close inspection
I thought I made a very fair selection.
She was a dandy wench and she carried full sail.
Round her neck she wore a thing like a foxes tail.
	Oh! she looked so very fine.
	She was the real superfine.
	Of all the wench that I meet,
	I never see one wid such feet.

