"Speed Away! Speed Away!
or The Freed Bird Quartette" (29 Jan 1848)
Composed for and cordially Inscribed to the
Harmon Glee Club
by Isaac Baker Woodbury, 1819-1858

Among the superstitions of the Senecas, is one which, for its 
singular beauty, is already well known, when a maiden dies, 
they imprison a young bird until its first flight begins to 
try its powers of song, and then, loading it with kisses and 
caresses they loose its bonds over her grave in the belief 
that it will not fold its wings, nor close its eyes, until it 
has flown to the spirit land, and delivered its precious 
burden of affection to the loved and lost. "It is not 
unfrequent," says the Indian historian, "to see twenty to 
thirty birds loosened at once, over one grave."

Boston, MA: Martin & Beals, 184 Washington St.
[Boston, MA: Oliver Ditson & Co., Washington St.]
[Sources: 44100@LoC; 125/114@Levy]

1. Speed away! speed away! on thine errand of light!
There's a young heart awaiting thy coming tonight;
She will fondle thee close, she will ask for the loved,
Who pine upon earth since the “Day Star” has roved.
She will ask if we miss her, so long is her stay.
Speed away! Speed away! Speed away!

2. Wilt thou tell her, bright songster, the old chief is lone;
That he sits all the day by his cheerless hearth stone;
That his tomahawk lies all unnoted the while,
And his thin lips wreathe ever in one sunless smile;
That the old chieftan mourns her, and why will she  stay?
Speed away! Speed away! Speed away!

3. And oh! wilt thou tell her, blest bird on the wing,
That her mother hath ever a sad song to sing;
That she standeth alone, in the still quiet night,
And her fond heart goes forth for the being of light,
Who had slept in her bosom, but who would not stay,
Speed away! Speed away! Speed away!

4. Go, bird of the silver wing! fetterless now;
Stoop not thy bright pinion on yon mountain’s brow;
But hie thee away o’er rock, river and glen,
And find our young “Day Star” ere night close again.
Up! onward! let nothing thy mission delay.
Speed away! Speed away! Speed away!

