"Black-Eyed Susan" (circa 1850s)
Newly Arranged for the Piano Forte.
Sung By E.L. Davenport and T.P. Cooke, 
at all the principal Theatres in the Drama of Black-Eyed Susan.

London: Musical Bouquet Office, 192 High Holborn;
& J. Allen, 20 Warwick Lane, Paternoster Row..
unattrib. lith. of Mr. Davenport as William in "Black-Eyed Susan"
Musical Bouquet, No. 611.
[Source: 118/030@Levy]

1. All in the Downs, the fleet was moor’d, 
	The streamers wa ving in the wind, 
When blackey’d Susan came on board, 
	Oh where shall I my true love find. 
Tell me, ye jovial sailors, tell me true, 
Does my sweet William, does my sweet William sail among your crew.

2. William, who high upon the yard 
	Rock’d with the billows to and fro, 
Soon as her wellworn voice be heard, 
	He sigh’d, and cast his eyes below. 
The cord glides swiftly thro’ his glowing  hands, 
And quick as lightning, and quick as lightning, on the deck he stands.

3. So the sweet lark, high pois’d in air, 
	Shuts close his pinions to his breast 
If chance his mate’s shrill call he hear 
	And drops at once into her nest. 
The noblest captain in the British fleet 
Might easy William’s, might easy William’s lips those kisses sweet.

4. O Susan, Susan, lovely dear, 
	My vows shall ever true remain; 
Let me kiss off that falling tear; 
	We only part to meet again. 
Change as ye list, ye winds, my heart shall be  
The faithful compass, the faithful compass, that still points to thee.

5. Believe not what the landsmen say, 
	Who tempt with doubts thy constant mind; 
They’d tell thee, sailors, when away, 
	In ev’ry port a mistress find: 
Yes, yes, be lieve them when they tell thee so, 
For thou art present, for thou art present wheresoe’er I go.

6. If to far India’s coast we sail, 
	Thy eyes are seen in diamonds bright, 
Thy breath is Afric’s spicy gale, 
	Thy skin is ivory so white. 
Thus ev’ry beauteous object that I view, 
Wakes in my soul, wakes in my soul some charm of lovely Sue.

7. Though battle calls me from thy arms, 
	Let not my pretty Susan mourn;
Though cannons roar, yet safe from harms,
	William shall to his dear return.
Love turns aside the balls that round me fly,
Lest precious tears should, lest precious tears should drop from Susan’s eye.

8. The boatswain gave the dreadful word,
	The sails their swelling bosom spread;
No longer must she stay aboard;
	They kissed, she sighed, he hung his head.
Her less’ning boat unwilling rows to land;
Adieu! she cried, and adieu! she cried, and waved her lily hand.
