[Cover Page: "The Gipsey Girl or Charlotte Stanley"]
[Title Page:]  "Charlotte Stanley
or the Gipsy Girl's Story" (circa 1850s)
Words by Charles Jeffreys
Music by Stephen Ralph Glover, 1812-1870

	A Lady of rank and fortune, who happened to have no children,
had taken so great a liking to a beautiful little gipsy girl, that 
she took it home, had her educated, and at length adopted her as her
daughter.  She was called Charlotte Stanley, received the education
of a young English Lady of rank, and grew up to be a beautiful, well
informed, and accomplished girl.  In the coarse of time a young man
of good family became attached to her, and wished to marry her.  The
nearer, however, this plan approached the period of its execution,
the more melancholy became the youndMindowlance bride; and one day,
to the terror of her foster mother and her betrothed husband, she
could no where be found.
	It was known there had been some gipsies in the neighborhood;
a search was set on foot, and Charlotte Stanley was discovered in
the arms of a gipsy, the Chief of the band.  She declared she was
his wife, and no one had a right to take her away from him, and
the benefactress and the bridegroom returned inconsolable.  
Charlotte afterwards came to visit them, and told how, as they
grew up, she had felt more and more conficted within the walls
of the Castle, and an irresistable longing had at length seized
her to return to her wild gipsy life, nor could she, although
suffering many cruelties from her gipsy husband, ever be induced
to abandon the toiling life to which she had returned.  I saw
the portrait of Charlotte Stanley, which was preserved by a
friend of her youth. Her story is a kind of inversion to that
of Freedom, and might make an interesteding romance.
    Kohl's England.

Baltimore: F. D. Benteen
Plate No. 612 [?]
Engraver: Webb.
[Source: 035'029@Levy]

1. They wiled me from my greenwood home. 
They won me from the tent, 
And slightingly they spoke of scenes 
Where my young days were spent. 
They dazzled me with balls of light 
But tears would sometimes start. 
They thought ’twas but to charm the eye 
And they might win the heart. 
They little knew what ties of love 
Had bound me in their spell, 
|: The greenwood was my happiest home 
And there I long’d to dwell. [3x] :|

2. They gave me gems to bind my hair.
I long’d the while for flow’rs
Fresh gather’d by my gipsy freres
From Nature’s wildest bow’rs;
They gave me books,— I lov’d alone
To read the starry skies;
They taught me songs— the songs I lov’d
Were Nature’s melodies.
I never heard a captive bird,
But panting to be free.
|: I long’d to burst his prison door
And share his liberty. [3x] :|

3. ’Twas kindly meant, and kindly hearts
Were their who bade me roam
From Nature and her forest free,
To share the city’s home.
The woods are green, the hedges white,
With leaves and blossoms fair,
There’s music in the forest now,
And I too must be there;
O do not chide the Gipsy girl,
O call me not unkiind;
|: I ne’er shall meet so dear a friend
As her I leave behind. [3x] :|
