[Filed in Clerk's Office Dist. Court U.States Cty Dist.
May 11th 1850 by Jno. H. Hanna]
[Rec'd at D. of Co. April 30, 1851.]
"Orphan’s Lament,"
Words by
MELODIA,
Music Composed & Dedicated To,
Mrs. F. G. Smith,
Of Columbia, Tenn.
by
J. K. OPL.

Published by Peters, Webb & Co, Louisville [KY]
Cincinnati: Peters & Field.
Baltimore: W. C. Peters.
Plate No. 1599__5
[Source: 1850-481930@LoC]

1. The bird hath ceased it’s strain, mother, the bird hath ceased it’s strain,
The summer flowers have passed away, the frost is on the pane.
The new year comes with smiles and joy up on our peaceful earth,
and happy faces beam by night, around the blazing hearth.
I hear the shout of joy ring forth, I hear the merry  jest,
Yet not one lip hath bid me soothe my sighing heart to rest,
The wintry winds are shreiking round, I feel their death like thrill,
Thereˆs no bright hearth to blaxe for me, so sad, so sick, and chill.

2. I would I were with thee, mother, within the churchyard old,
No more to fuel the pangs of want, to shiver with the cold.
Beside thee in thy narrow grave, I’d slumber still and deep.
No rankling care, no proud world’s scorn would rouse me from my sleep.
I hear the laugh of joy sing out, I list the mirth notes free,
There’s naught on earth to call one smile of happiness from me,
I miss the link that did of yore my breaking heart strings hold,
Then would I were with thee, mother, within the churchyard old.

3. And when the smiling Spring again gain, shall on the green hills wake,
And birds among the forest boughs, their wild sweet music make,
There’s one poor heart must struggle on without hope’s cheering ray,
I, only, I, shall mournful be, while all around are gay,
And when my comrades bound at eve their father’s step to hear,
In vain I strive to brave it all, and brush away a tear.
To me the shadowy evening brings no parents blessed voice,
No father, mother, home, have I, to bid my soul rejoice.

4. I lay me down at the close of eve, this weary form to rest,
To shut these sleepless, watching eyes, unknown, unloved, unblest,
I say the prayer you taught me, mother, that sweet, that blessed prayer,
Tis all that keeps the burdened heart from bursting with its care.
I tray to pass in pleasant dreams the long, long winter nights;
To look forth for a brighter hour, a day of deathless light.
I’ll still be looking for the time, when life and sorrow o’er,
I’ll lay my head upon thy breast, to sigh and weep no more.

5. I’ve learned to look on other’s joy and envy not their bliss,
To watch, unmoved, a father’s pride, a mother’s doating kiss,
To heedless see blind fortune’s gifts on others round me thrown,
While I, the orphan one, remained unsought, unloved, alone.
I have a trusting heart, mother, I hear the raging blast,
I’m chilled with winter’s cold, yet feel, ’twill all ere long be past,
I hear no soothing words of love, no smiles to me are given,
Cheer up, brave heart, there’s something saith, “Thou’lt meet with smiles in Heaven.”
