"The American Star" (15 Oct 1850)
National Song
Words [written in] 1812 by
John McCreery Esq.
Music Revised in 1850 & Respectfully Dedicated to
Hon. R. K. Meade,
of Virginia

Baltimore: F. D. Benteen
New Orleans: W. T. Mayo
Plate Number: 1762
Engraver: Webb
[Source:
CALL NUMBER
M1.A12V vol. 41 Case Class original bound volumes
PART OF
American 19th-century sheet music. Copyright deposits, 1820-1860
REPOSITORY
Library of Congress. Music Division.
DIGITAL ID
sm1850 481570
http://hdl.loc.gov/loc.music/sm1850.481570]

1. Come, strike the bold anthem, the wardogs are howling,
Already they eagerly snuff up their prey,
The red clouds or war o’er our forests are scowling,
Soft Peace spreads her wings and flies weeping away—
The infants, affrightéd, cling close to their mothers,
The youths grasp their swords and for combat prepare,
While beauty weeps fathers, and lovers and brothers,
Who rush to display the American Star,
  While beauty weeps— fathers, and lovers and brothers,
  Who rush to display the American Star.

2. Come, blow the shrill bugle, the loud drum awaken,
The dread rifle seize, let the cannon deep roar;
No heart with pale fear, or faint doubting be shaken,
No slave’s hostile foot leave a print on our shore;
Shall mothers, wives, daughters and sisters, left weeping,
Insulted by ruffians— be dragg’d to despair?
Oh no!— from the hills the proud eagle comes swooping,
And waves to the brave, the American Star.
  Oh no!— from the hills the proud eagle comes swooping,
  And waves to the brave, the American Star.

3. The Spirits of Washington, Warren, Montgomery
Look down from the skies with bright aspect serene—
Come, soldiers! a tear and a toast to their memory,
Rejoicing they see us as erst they have been.
To us the high boon by our GOD has been granted,
To spread the glad tidings of Liberty far;
Let millions invade us, we’ll meet them undaunted,
And conquer or die by the American Star.
  Let millions invade us, we’ll meet them undaunted,
  And conquer or die by the American Star.

4. Your hands, then, dear comrades round Liberty’s altar
United we swear by the souls of the brave,
Not one from the strong resolution shall falter,
To live independent, or sink in the grave.
Then freemen, rejoice, lo! the striped banner’s flying,
The high bird of Liberty screams thro’ the air,
Beneath her, oppression and Tyranny dying,
Success to the beaming American Star.
  Beneath her, oppression and Tyranny dying,
  Success to the beaming American Star.
