Songs
of the
Blind Brothers
J. W. Dunbar. H. W. Dunbar. Q. A. Dunbar.
Words & Music
by
H. W. Dunbar
Sung at their Concerts Throughout the Country

[1] The Connecticut Pedlar
[2] The Granite Hills
[3] The Angelic Guardian
[4] My Native Cot
[5] The Endearments of Home
[6] The Farmers Glee
[7] The American Nation
[8] The Joys of Life Are Fading

"The Connecticut Pedlar" (1851)
[Words & Music
by
H. W. Dunbar]

Boston: Oliver Ditson, 115 Washington St.
New York: J. E. Gould & Co.
New Orleans: Tyler & Hewitt
Boston: C. C. Clapp & Co.
Plate No. 2236
[Source: 022/018@Levy]

[with overlapping words]
I’m a Pedlar, I’m a Pedlar, I’m a Pedlar from Connecticut,
I’m a Pedlar, I’m a Pedlar, pray don’t you want to buy?
Many goods have I in store, sir,
Listen while I name them o’er sir,
Finer goods that e’er you saw before sir,
Very splendid goods have I to sell in store sir,
Listen while I name them o’er.
Wooden wares, carpets for parlors and stairs,
Matches and Spanish cigars, articles spendid I tell you.
Here are tins, papers of needles and pins,
Tracts upon popular sins, any of which I would sell.

And here is Thomsonian medicine,
Have you any strong lobelia?
richest beyond all comparison,
Killing the seeds of diseases, appetite while it increases,
Do you sell American valerian?
Have you any powder’d bab’ry?
Hot drops and strong composition will keep you in healthy condition,
So you will ne’er need a physician again.
Tell me pedlar, have you any thing will cure a very cross and nervous wife?

And here is Thomsonian medicine, richest beyond all comparison,
Killing the seeds of diseases appetite while it increases,
Hot drops and strong composition will keep you in healthy condition,
So you will ne’er need a physician again.

Here are combs, elegant brushes and brooms, made for the sweeping of rooms,
Finish’d both smoothly and neatly.
Here are knives, ribbons and silks for your wives,
Whistles and jewharps and fifes, on which your sons will play sweetly.
Here are
Have you
combs, elegant brushes and brooms, made for the sweeping of rooms,
Finish’d both smoothly and neatly.
Here are
any first rate dishtubs?
My old lady wants a washboard.
Hand us
knives, ribbons and silks for your wives,
Whistles and jewharps and fifes, on which your sons will play sweetly.
And
out some patent clothespins.
My old lady wants a broom.
here is the seed of asparagus, lettuce, beets, onions and peppergrass,
From the United Sociities,
Seeds of all kinds and varieties,
Shavingsoap, excellent razorstrops, razors that smoothly will shave your chops,
Swain’s panacea, and Jones’s drops too.
And here is the seed of asparagus, lettuce, beets, onions and peppergrass,
Have you any seed of turnip?
Cabbage seed or seed of
From the United Societies, seeds of all kinds and varieties,
Shaving-soap, excellent razorstrops,
Do you sell the seed of coriander?
carrot?
Tell me pedlar, can you
razors that smoothly will shave your chops,
Swain’s panacea and Jones’s drops too.
I'm a
Here’s a
furnish me with any wire sieves or dinner horns?
Here’s a
pedlar, I’m a pedlar, I’m a pedlar from Connecticut,
I’m a pedlar, I’m a pedlar, pray
pedlar, here’s a pedlar, here’s a pedlar from Connecticut,
here’s a pedlar, here’s a pedlar, pray
don’t you want to buy?

Wooden Have you
wares, carpets for parlors and stairs,
any wooden nutmegs?
Matches and Spanish cigars, articles splendid I tell you.
Have you any wooden shad, sir?
Here are Have you
tins, papers of needles and pins,
any wooden nutmegs?
Have you any wooden shad?
Tracts upon popular sins, any of which I would sell.
