The Constitution and the Guerriere" (19 Aug 1812)
[Tune: The Landlady of France
Words and Music -- anonymous]

[The famous fight occurred August 19th, 1812, off the New England
coast.  In twenty five minutes the Guerrier ( 38 ), commanded by
Captain Dacres, was totally dismasted and her hull so riddled
that she was not thought worth towing into port, and was blown
up.  The "Constitution" ( 44 ), was commanded by Captain Isaac
Hull.  Loss of "Constitution", seven killed, seven wounded.
"Guerriere," seventy-nine killed and wounded.

--- S. B. LUCE, Rear-Admiral (Retired), 1902, from "Naval Songs"]

[Source: reprinted on pages 42-43 from "Naval Songs"]

It ofttimes has been told,
    That the British seamen bold
Could flog the tars of France so neat and handy, oh!
    But they never found their match,
    ’Till the Yankees did them catch,
Oh, the Yankee boys for fighting are the dandy, oh!

    The Guerriere a frigate bold,
    On the foaming ocean rolled,
Commanded by proud Dacres the grandee, oh,
    With as choice a British crew,
    As a rammer ever drew,
Could flog the Frenchmen two to one so handy, oh!

    When this frigate hove in view,
    Says proud Dacres to his crew,
“Come, clear ship for action and be handy, oh!
    To the weather gage, boys, get her,”
    And to make his men fight better,
Gave them to drink, gunpowder mixed with brandy, oh!

    Then Dacres loudly cries,
    “Make this Yankee ship your prize,
You can in thirty minutes, neat and handy, oh!
    Twentyfive’s enough I’m sure,
    And if you’ll do it in a score,
I’ll treat you to a double share of brandy, oh!”

    The British shot flew hot,
    Which the Yankees answered not,
Till they got within the distance they called handy, oh!
    “Now,” says Hull unto his crew,
    “Boys, let’s see when we can do,
If we take this boasting Briton we're the dandy,” oh!

    The first broadside we poured,
    Carried her mainmast by the board,
Which made this lofty frigate look abandon’d, oh!
    Then Dacres shook his head,
    And to his officers said,
“Lord! I didn’t think those Yankees were so handy,” oh!

    Our second told so well
    That their fore and mizzen fell,
Which dous’d the royal ensign neat and handy, oh!
    “By George!” says he, “we’re done,”
    And they fired a lee gun,
While the Yankees struck up Yankee doodle dandy, oh!

    Then Dacres came on board,
    To deliver up his sword,
Tho’ loth was he to part with it, it was so handy, oh!
    “Oh! keep you sword,” says Hull,
    “For it only makes you dull,”
“Cheer up, and let us have a little brandy, oh!”

    Now, fill yhou glasses full,
    And we’ll drink to Captain Hull,
And so merrily we’ll push about the brandy, oh!
    John Bull may toast his fill,
    But let the world say what they will,
The Yankee boys for fighting are the dandy, oh!