"Paul Jones' Victory" (1813)
[Words and Music -- anonymous]

[In commemoration of the victory of Captain John Paul Jones, commanding the "Bon Homme Richard", Sept, 23, 1779,
over the British "Seraphis" and "Countess of Scarborough" Stoop-of-War, during the American Revolution. Captain Jones,
born in Scotland, 1747, died in 1792, aged 45.

*[Ref: Verse 8] Commodore Trunnion says: "I once lay eight glasses alongside the "Flower-de-Louise", a French man-of-
war."  (Perigrine Pickle, page 11.)  The word "glasses" here referes to the hour glass, the method then in use of keep-
ing the deck time.  The use of the word in this song goes far towards establishing the date of the composition.

                                      —  S. B. LUCE, Read-Admiral (Retired), 1902 from "Naval Songs"]

[Source: reprinted on pages 44-45 from "Naval Songs" (1902)]

1. An American frigate, a frigate of fame,
With guns mounting forty, the Richard by name,
Sail’d to cruise in the channels of old England,
With a vallant commander, Paul Jones was the man.

CHORUS [sung after each VERSE]
Hurrah! Hurrah!
Our country forever, Hurrah!

2. We had not cruised long, before he espies
A large fourtyfour, and a twenty likewise;
Well mann’d with bold seamen, well laid in with stores,
In consort to drive us from old England’s shores.

3. About twelve at noon Pearson came alongside,
With a loud speaking trumpet, “Whence came you?” he cried;
“Return me an answer— I hail’d you before,
Or if you do not, a broadside I’ll pour.”

4. Paul Jones then said to his men, every one,
“Let every true seaman stand firm to his gun!
We’ll receive a broadside from the bold Englishman,
And like true Yankee sailors, return it again.”

5. The contest was bloody, both deck ran with gore,
And the sea seemed to blaze, while the cannon did roar;
“Fight on, my brave boys,” then Paul Jones he cried,
“And soon we will humble this bold Englishman’s pride.”

6. Stand firm to your quarters— your duty don’t shun,
The first one that shrinks, through the body I’ll run;
Though their force is superior, yet they shall know,
What true, brave American seamen can do.”

7. The battle rolled on, till bold Pearson cried:
“Have you yet struck your colors? then come alongside!”
But so far from thinking that the battle was won,
Brave Paul Jones replied, “I’ve not yet begun!”

8. We fought them eight glasses,* eight glasses so hot,
Till seventy bold seamen lay dead on the spot.
And ninety brave seamen lay stretched in their gore,
While the pieces of cannon most fiercely did roar.

9. Our gunner, in great fright to Captain Jones came,
“We gain water quite fast and our sides in a flame;”
Then Paul Jones said in the height of his pride,
“If we cannot do better, boys, sink alongside!”

10. The Alliance bore down, and the Richard did rake,
Which caused the bold hearts of our seamen to ache;
Our shot flew so hot that they could not stand us long,
And the undaunted Union of Britain came down.

11. To us they did strike and their colors haul down;
The fame of Paul Jones to the world shall be known;
His name shall rank with the gallant and brave,
Who fought like a hero our freedom to save.

12. Now all valiant seamen where’er you may be,
Who hear of the combat that’s fought on the sea,
May you all do like them, when called for the same,
And your names be enrolled on the pages of fame.

13. Your country will boast of her sons that are brave,
And to you she will look from all dangers to save;
She’ll call you dear sons, in her annals you’ll shine,
And the brows of the brave with green laurels entwine.

14. So now, my brave boys, have we taken a prize—
A large fourty four, and a twenty likewise!
Then God bless the mother whose doom is to weep
The loss of her sons in the ocean so deep.
