"The United States and the Macedonian" (1813)
Words and Melody -- anonymous

[Source: page 93 from "Naval Songs" 
Compiled by S. B. Luce (1902, 1918)]

The U. S. frigate _United States_, Commodore Stephen Decatur, 
captured the English frigate _Macedonian_, Captain Carden, 
Oct. 25, 1813. The _United States_ had five killed and seven 
wounded. The _Macedonian_ lost thirthy-six killed, and 
sixty-eight wounded.

1. How glows each patriot bosom that boasts a Yankee heart,
To emulate such glorious deeds that nobly take a part
  When sailors with their thun’dring guns 
  Prove to the English, French, and Duns
  That Neptune’s chosen fav’rite sons
    Are brave Yankee boys.

2. The twentyfifth of October, that glorious happy day,
When we, beyond all precedent, from Britons bore the sway,—
  ’Twas in the ship United States,
  Fourandforty guns she rates,
  That she should rule, decreed the fates
    And brave Yankee boys.

3. Decatur and his hardy tars were cruising on the deep,
When off the Western Islands they to and fro did sweep.
  The Macedonian they espied, 
  “Huzza! bravo!” Decatur cried. 
  “We’ll humble Britain’s boasted pride,
    My brave Yankee boys.”

4. The decks were cleared, the hamocks stowed, the boatswain pipes all hands,
The tomkins out, the guns well sponged, the captain now commands,
  The boys who for their country fights,
  Their words, “Free Trade and Sailor’s Rights!”
  Three times they cheered with all their might,
    Those brave Yankee boys.

5. Now chainshot, grape and langrage pierce through her open side,
And many a gallant sailor’s blood runs purpling in the tide;
  While death flew nimbly o’er their decks,
  Some lost their legs, and some their necks,
  And glory’s wreath our ship bedecks,
    For brave Yankee boys.

6. My boys, the proud St. George’s cross, the Stripes above it wave,
And busy are our gen’rous tars, the conquered foe to save,
  To Carden then, in tones so bland,
  Our Captain cries, “Give me your hand,”
  Then of the ship who took command
    But brave Yankee boys?

7. Our enemy lost her mizzen, her main and foretopmast,
For ev’ry shot with death was winged, which slew her men so fast,
  That they lost five to one in killed,
  And ten to one blood was spilled,
  So Fate decreed and Heaven had willed,
    For brave Yankee boys.

8. Then homeward steered the captive ship, now safe in port she lies,
The old and young with rapture viewed our sailor’s noble pride;
  Through seas of wine their health we’ll drink,
  And wish them sweethearts, friends, and chink,
  Who, ’fore they’d strike, would nobly sink,
    Our brave Yankee boys.
