"The Martial Summons!" (15 Nov. 1875)
(from "Choruses and Quartettes for Male Voices", No. 1 of 10)
Words by Frank C. Walker
Music by Frederic Woodman Root, 1846-1916

Come! come! come! come rally at our galliant leader's call!
Come come! Come rally at our gallant leader's call!
Come come! To gather we'll stand or fall.
(Now forward march)
March on! with steady step we march along,
No wild alarm can still our song;
With steady step we come joyous with a song
Ours a soldier's life at danger's post
With comrades gay a fearless host
we march with merry song a joyous throng
To the drum's pulsing sound how our hearts quick rebound
And the loud trumpet's call
Bids us haste one and all
To the drum's pulsing sound how our hearts quick rebound
And the loud trumpet's call
Bids us haste one and all
Oh hear the trumpet's ringing sound
March on march on with steady step we march along
No wild charm can still our song
With steady step we come joyous throng with a song
Ours a soldier's life at danger's post
With comrades gay a fearless host
We march we march along with a song a joyous throng
Then on march all those who love us
Pray Heav'n above us
Bless the right
Now away to the fray
Win the day ---
Our farewells soon must all be o'er
let us hasten (Come on) haste we on
None may pause
Some may fail to rise no more
But fear not death in Freedom's cause
In freedom's cause
All those who love us
Pray Heav'n above us
Bless the right
Now away to the fray
We must win the day ---
Come come r-r-r-r-rally at our gallant leader's call
Come r-r-r-r-rally at our leader's call
In r-r-r-r-right array now move on
yes on in Freedom's glorious cause
Oh Then when victorious homeward we move
Blessings await us from those we love
Now grief of parting hath no alloy
Then will they greet us with songs of joy,
Budding them hope all fear repel;
Come brothers hasten our last farewell
Haste we on come lose no time
With steady step we fall in line with cheerful song
No delay march on no delay march on no delay
Onward now in step so true
Our flag display red white and blue
We must we must away away now come away


