"Lady Isabel and the Elf Knight"
A Folk Song of Nova Scotia
[Source: reprinted words and melody pages 10, 18-19 from
"The Folk Songs of North America" by Alan Lomax (1960, 1975)]

1. There was as Lord in Lon don town,
He courtted a lady gay,
And all that he courted the lady for
Was to take her sweet life away.

2. ’Come give to me of your father’s gold,
Likewise your mother’s fee,
And two of the best horses in your father’s stable,
For there stands thirty and three.’

3. She mounted on her milk white steed,
And he the fast traveling grey,
They rode til he came to the seashore  side,
Three hoours before it was day.

4. ’A light, alight, my pretty Polly,
Alight, alight,’ said he,
’For six pretty maid I have drownded here,
And you the seventh shall be.’

5. Now take off your silken dress,
Likewise your golden stay,
For I think your clothing too rich and too gay,
To rot all in the salt sea.’

6. ’Yes, I’ll take off my silken dress,
Likewise my golden stay,
But before I do so you false young man,
You must face yon willow tree.’

7. Then he turned his back around
And faced yon willow tree,
She caught him around the mid dle so small
And throwed him into the sea.

8. And  as he rose and as he sank
And as he rose, said he,
’O give me your hand my pretty Polly,
My bride forever you’ll be.’

9. ’Lie there, lie there, you false young man,
Lie there instead of me,
For six pretty maids you’ve drownded here,
And the senventh one has drownded thee.’

10. She lighted on her milkwhite steed,
And led the fast traveling grey,
And rode till she came to her father’s outside
One hour before it was day.

11. The parot in the garret so high
And unto pretty Polly did say,
What's the matter my pretty Polly,
You’re driveing before it is day?’

12. ’No tales, no tales, my pretty Polly,
No tales, no tales,’ said she,
’Your cage will be made of the glittering gold
And yours of ivory.’

13. ’No tales no tales, my pretty Polly,
No tales, no tales,’ said she,
’Your cage will be made of glittering gold
And hung on yon willow tree.’
