"Up With the Flag!" (not dated [circa 1865?])
Written by John Rogers Thomas, 1830-1896

Received Nightly with Thunders of Applause in all the
Principal Concert Rooms in the United States.

New York: Charles Magnus, No. 12 Frankfort Street
Branch Office, No. 520 7th St., Washington D.C.
[Source: Songsheet (only) 193/251@Levy]

1. The Rebels thought they had us when the war first begun,
When we had a misfortune at the battle of Bull's Run,
But they soon found out they had no earthly sight,
For we beat them two to one in a fair field fight.

CHORUS [sung after each verse]
Hoist up the flag and long may it wave,
Over the Union boys so noble and so brave;
Hoist up the flag and long may it wave,
Over the Union, the home of the brave.

2. Our troups on the march they were mighty lucky,
They licked the enemy two to one in old Kentucky;
Our troups on the march were of the right stamp,
They beat the enemy off the ground and took all their camp.

3. Our troups at Richmond were under good training,
They are under the command of General McCleelan,
The troups at Richmond are anxious for a fight,
But the Rebels they were cowardly and kept out of sight.

4. The Little Iron Monitor went to Norfork well packed.
She fought seven hours along the Merrimac.
When she opened fire she made the Maerrimac sound,
SHe crippled her with a ball weighing 480 pounds.

5. Govenor Wise marched his troups our for to have a fight.
Our boys they met him and banged him left and right.
The Govevenor's first battle he met with a defeat.
He better better think of John Brown and take a back seat.

6. It was at Roanoke Island where we had this fight.
When the battle went on Gov. Wise was out of sight.
He got on his horse and rode off to town,
Thinking of the ghost of old John Brown.

7. Pittsburgh Landing our troups fought hard.
They killed Gen. Jackson and defeated Beauregard.
The way they stayed the Rebels they knew how it would be,
With our land force and gunboats a Union Victory.

8. To war with us takes South and Johnny Bull.
They better stay at home, they have got their hands full.
If they come here to fight they won't have a chance,
Unless they get some help from the Emperor of France.

9. Give the punishment of all the Southerns to me,
I'll hand every traitor up to a high tree.
To secure Jeff. Davis I'll let you all see.
I'd have ropes enough to hang two or three.

10. Our soldiers they have left their homes and wives,
And from their country's cause have sacrificed their lives,
But when the flag is hoisted, and they see it waving free,
They think of the Union and sweet Liberty.

11. England is trying mighty hard to kick up a fuss.
They had better stay at home and not trouble us.
If they come here to fight they'll find it is not fun.
We'll give a little what they got from George Washington.
