"Sailing Home" (n. d.; circa 1858)
Ballad
Sung by Wilton Smart
Written & Composed by Charles Osborne
[alias? for John Rogers Thomas, 1830-1896]
Arranged by John S. Baker 

Boston: White-Smith Music Publishing Co.
Boston: L. H. Ross & Co., Agents
New Orleans: L. V. Eckert, Manager
Kansas City: Legg Bros., Agents
New York: Bennett & Maguire, Managers
Chicago: J. M. Himelman, Manager
St. Paul: N. Ford Music Co., Agents
Philadelphia: N. Darling, Manager
Portland, OR: Wiley B. Allen, Agents
Denver, CO: Denver Music Co., Agents
Plate number: 8033-5 
[Source: 183/038@Levy]

1. ’Twas a beautiful day and the quay-side at Melbourne 
Was crowded with Colonists eager to say, 
“God speed!” to the ship that was taking to England 
Those who’d not seen her for many a day—
Their dear native land far away! 
The crew were all Britons, brave, jolly and true, 
The Skipper a gallant old mariner too; 
The vessel was “taut” as a vessel could be; 
The passengers anxious to stand out to sea. 

CHORUS [sung twice after each verse ('p' and 'f')]
Over the sea like a bird she skimm’d 
Back from the Land of Gold. 
Pulses were beating, and eyes were dimm’d 
Thinking of friends of old. 
Soon they would stand in their Fatherland, 
Never again to roam; 
But little they thought that their ship so “taut” 
Would founder while sailing home. 

2. The anchor was weighed, and the ship left the harbour,
Their friends on the quay-side had raised the last cheer;
Long weeks sped away, with the fairest of weather,
Till they the grim Bay of Biscay drew near—
That wild weaste of waters so drear!
At midnight, the storm which was gathering fast,
Crashed like a thunderbolt on them at last;
The vessel was hurled on the rocks in the gale,
And hardly a soul lived to tell the sad tale. 

3. ’Twas a pitiful sight on the fair Hoe at Plymouth!
A vast crowd of people were lining the shore,
The rumour had spread that a vessel was “missing,”
Women and children were weeping full sore,
For lov’d ones they’d see never more.
But ah! who shall venture the grief to pourtray
Of the widows and orphans who stood their that day?
The wild waters hide the doomed vessel from view,
And more fear her sad fate the world never knew. 
