"Soon Shall We Dearest" (21 Oct 1856)
Parigi, O Cara
The Beautiful Duett From
LA TRAVIATA [Opera in 3 Acts, 6 Mar 1853]
[Libretto by Francesco Maria Piave]
by Guiseppe Fortunino Francesco Verdi, 1813-1901
Translated, adapted & arranged by
John Rogers Thomas, 1830-1896

New York: Firth, Pond & Co., 547 Broadway
New York: Scharfenberg & Louis
Plate No. 4080
Engraver: Quidor
[Source: 1856-601230@LoC]

[English Verse Translation]
Soon shall we dearest leave Paris for ever, 
Through life united no more to sever, 
Pleasure shall banish the thought of past sorrow, 
To thy pale cheek the bloom shall restore, 
Life and light, love, from  thee I’ll borrow 
While all the future new joys will pour. 
Yes! Life and light I’ll borrow 
Soon shall we dearest leave Paris forever 
Yes soon leave forever 
Through life united no more to sever, 
no, no more to sever 
Pleasure shall banish all thought of past sorrow 
Ah yes to thy pale cheek, to thy pale cheek the bloom restore. 
Soon shall we dearest leave Paris forever 
Yes soon leave forever 
Through life united no more to sever, no, no more to sever 
Pleasure shall banish all thought of past sorrow 
Ah yes to they pale 
Soon shall we dearest, leave Paris forever, 
Through life united no more to sever 
Pleasure shall banish all thought of past sorrow, 
To my pale cheek the bloom shall restore, 
Life and light, live, from thee I’ll borrow 
While all the future new joys will pour. 
Pleasure shall banish all thoughts of sorrow, 
While all the future new joys will pour, 
Pleasure shall banish all thought of sorrow, 
While all the future new joys will pour 
Yes pleasure shall banish all thought of past sorrow, 
To my pale cheek, to my pale cheek the bloom restore, the bloom restore. 
Pleasure shall banish all though of sorrow, 
While all the future new joys will pour. 
Pleasure shall banish all thought of sorrow, 
While all the future new joys will pour. 
Yes pleasure shall banish all thought of past sorrow, 
To my pale cheek, to my pale cheek the bloom restore, 
the bloom restore, the bloom restore. 
Pleasure shall banish, pleasure shall banish all thought of sorrow, 
Pleasure shall banish all thought of sorrow 
The bloom restore, ah yes the bloom restore.

[Orignal Italian Verse]
Parigi, o cara, noi lascorema, 
la vita unoti trascorre reme de’ corai affunni sompense avrai, 
la tua salute rifiorirà! 
So spiro e luce tumi sarai, tutto il fu turo ne arriderà 
Si Sospir luce sarai Parigi, O cara noi lasceremo si noi lascoremo, 
la vita uniti trassorre rame noi trascorrere mo de corsi affanni compenso avrai, 
ah si la tua salute, la tua salute rifiorira 
Parigi, o cara noi laseeremo 
Si noi laseeremo la vita uniti trascorre remo noi trascorre remo 
de’ corsi affanni compenso avrai ah si la tua sa
Parigi, o cara, noi laseeremo 
la vita uni ti traseorre remo de’ corsi affanni compenso avrai, 
la mia salute rifiorirà Sospiro e luce tu mi sarai, 
tutto il futuro ne arri derà De’ corsi af fanni compenso avrai, 
tutto il crea to ne arriderà De sorai affanni compenso avrai tutto 
il fururone arriderà decorsi affanni compenso avrai, 
la mia salute la tua salute rifiorira ri fiorirà 
de’ corsi affanni compenso avrai, 
tutto il crea to ne arriderà 
de’ corsi affanni compenso avrai tutto 
il futu ro ne arriderà de corsi affanni compenso avrai 
la mia salute la mia salute rifiorirà rifiorirà rifiorirà. 
De’ corsi affinni de’ corsi affanni compenso avrai, 
de’ corsi affanni compenso avrai, la mia salute ah si rifiorirà.

