"The Dream of the Reveller;
or The Three Houses" (1843)
A Cantata
the Words by Charles Mackay, Esq.[, 1814-1889]
the Music Composed
and Respectfully Dedicated to
The Temperance Societys of the United States
by Henry Russell[, 1810-1900]

New York, NY: James L. Hewitt & Co., 239 Broadway
New York, NY: Firth & Hall, 1 Franklin Sq.

====
"The Dream of the Reveller" (1843)
Sung by Mrs. Howard Paul,
in her popular entertainment
Words by Charles Mackay Esqre.[, 1814-1889.]
The Music by Henry Russell[, 1812-1900.]

New York, NY: Wm. Hall & Son
[Source: os35,2@UNC-CH]
====

1.
Around the board the guests were met, the lights above them gleaming,
And in their cups replenish'd oft, the ruddy wine was streaming;
Their cheeks were flush'd, their eyes were bright, their hearts with pleasure bounded,
The song was sung, the toast was giv'n, and loud the revel sounded;
I drain'd my bumper with the rest, and cried, "away with sorrow,
Let me be happy for today, and care not for tomorrow!"
But as I spoke, my sight grew dim, and slumber deep came o'er me,
And 'mid the whirl of mingling tongues, this vision pass'd before me.

2.
Me-thought I saw a demon rise; he held a mighty bicker,
Whose burnish'd sides ran d[g?]aily o'er, with floods of burning liquor;
Around him press'd a clam'rous crowd, to taste this liquor greedy,
But chiefly came the poor and sad, the suff'ring and the needy;
All those oppress'd by grief and debts, the dissolute and lazy,
Blear eyed old men, and reckless youths, and palsied women crazy,
"Give, give!" they cry, "give, give us drink to drown all thoughts of sorrow,
If we are happy for today, we care not for tomorrow!"
"Give, give!" they cry, "give, give us drink to drown all thoughts of sorrow,
If we are happy for today, we care not for tomorrow!"

3. [BRIDGE]
The First drop warms their shiv'ring skins, and drives away their sadness,
The Second lights their sunken eyes, and fills their souls with gladness;
The Third drop makes them almost shout and roar, and play each furious antic.
The Fourth drop boils their very blood, and the fifth drop drives them frantic.

"Drink!" says the demon, "drink your fill! drink of these waters mellow,
"They'll make your bright eyes blear and dull, and turn your white skins yellow.
"They'll fill your home with care and grief, and clothe your backs with tatters,
"They'll fill your hearts wtih evil thoughts,-- but never mind-- what matters?"
Ha! ha! ha! ha! ha! ha! ha! ha! but never mind-- what matters?"

4.
"Though virtue sink, and reasoning fail, and social ties dissever,
I'll be your friend in hour of need, and find you homes forever,
For I have built three mansions high, three stong goodly houses,
A work-house for the jolly soul, who all his life carouses,
An hospital to lodge the sot, oppress'd by pain and anquish,
A prison full of dungeons deep, where hopeless felons languish.
"So drain the cup, and drain again, and drown all thought of sorrow,
Be happy if you can today, and never mind tomorrow!"
"So drain the cup, and drain again, and drown all thought of sorrow,
Be happy if you can today, and never mind tomorrow!"

5.
But well he knows, this demon old, how vain is all his preaching,
The ragged crew that round him flock, are heedless of his teaching;
Even as they hear his fearful words, they cry with shouts of laughter,
"Out on the fool! who mars today with thoughts of an here after.
"We care not for thy houses three, we live but for the present:
And merry will we make it yet and quaff our bumpers pleasant."
Loud laughs the fiend to hear them speak, and lifts his brimming bicker.
"Body and soul are mine!" quote he "I'll have them both for liquor!"
"Ha! ha! ha! ha! ha! ha! ha! ha! I'll have them both for liquor!"
