"A Song for the Man" (1844)
A Henry Clay Ballad for 1844
Adapted to the popular air of the 
"Brave Old Oak" [by Edward T. Loder]
Words by the author of
"A Life on the Ocean Wave"
[i.e. George Pope Morris, 1802-1864]
Music Arranged by Henry Russell, 1812-1900.

New York: Firth & Hall, 239 Broadway and 2 Franklin Sq.
[Source: 004/115@Levy]

1.
A song for the Man of the bold, true Man,
  Who has rul'd in our Councils long;
The sun of his renown, it shall never go down,
  While a freeman can chaunt a song!
With a gallant firm heart, he has acted his part,
  In the cause of our country dear,
When storms rose to whelm, he has seiz'd on the helm,
  While the boldest shrank back in fear!

(CHORUS)
Then sing for the Man, the bold true Man,
  Whom our hearts and our heads hold dear;
And still flourish he, like a stout oak tree,
  This many and many a year!

2.
And would ye know who is this man brave and free?
  Let the nation's annals tell!
Was his heritage wealth? Integrity and health
  Were all that to the mill boy fell!
But soon began his luck when to noble old Kentuck',
  Unfriended and poor he turn'd;
Her honors she bestowe'd, her affections ever show'd,
  And all his traducers she spurn'd!

(CHORUS)

3.
At the outset he, amid foes, 'gainst Slavery he rose,
  And staked all, the stain to efface;
And although baffled then he would be as bold again,
  In the proper time and place.
The Tarrif's pioneer, to whom should be so dear
  The cause which we all uphold?
Home Labour's early friend, he ever will defend
  The banner he first unrolled.

(CHORUS)

4.
When Mister John Bull, with his pockets all full,
  For his spoon in our Yankee mess,
And dared to profane our flag upon the main,
  And our own brave Tars to impress, --
Who then, for sailor's rights, bequeath'd on Bunker's heights,
  Indignant defied the foe, --
Spread our convass to the blast, nailed our colors to the mast,
  And said to Mister Bull, -- no! no!

(CHORUS)

5.
But not in war alone was heard that trumpet-tone,
  That called us to dare and do;
The men of Ghent can tell how ardently and well,
  In peace he has served us too.
And when to raise a flame the Missouri Question came,
  And clouds o'er the Union hung,
Who then was found but Clay the tempest to allay,
  All our country's chiefs among?

(CHORUS)

6.
In Freedom's sacred cause, who ever saw him pause,
  Or a fear for himself betray?
The boats of Hollrar trod faster to war
  With a cheer from Henry Clay!
And Greece too heard his voice, bidding freemen to rejoice,
  And threw off the Muslem's yoke;
And tyrants on their thrones felt a chill in all their bones,
  While Freedom's champion spoke.

(CHORUS)

7.
But hark to those alarms! that mutter'd cry, to arms!
  Ah! it is no foreign foe!
The Nullifiers rise -- there are portents in our skies --
  Shall the blood of kindred flow?
E'en Jackson cannot save the Union from a grave --
  Is there no one to lead the way?
Ay! he steppeth forth once more, contentment to restore.
  Three cheers now for Henry Clay!

(CHORUS)

8.
In the days of our gloom, o'er thus has he come
  To the aid of Liberty!
Of the Constitution's cause, the Union and the laws,
  The worthiest Champion he!
He would rather be right, (he has said) than win the fight;
  But the might with the right shall dwell;
And a People's gratitude to him the brave and good,
  Let next November tell!

(CHORUS)

9.
From the Hermitage a wail is bourne upon the gale.
  Alas! are there none to heed?
O! the day is gone be when Kremer's wretched lie
  Could our Harry's course impede.
In rain the Labors strive, though oh! Veto to revive
  That slander of ancient date;
The People laugh to scorn a falsehood that was born
  Of malice and spleen and hate.

(CHORUS)

10.
Then a song for the Man, the brave, true Man,
  Who had rul'd in our councils long;
The Sun of his renown -- it shall never go down
  While a freeman can chaunt a song!
For Clay the bold and true, and for Frelinghuysen too,
  With a cheer now ready, boys be!
For as sure as Heaven's arch bends over us, next March,
  We shall see, what -- we shall see!

(CHORUS)
