"That Southern Wagon" (1862)
A Patriotic Song, with Chorus
Written and Composed
by Jerry Blossom (W. S. H.)
[William Shakespeare Hays, 1837-1907]

[Source: 090/065@Levy]

1.
Jeff Davis built a wagon, and on it put his name,
And Beauregard was driver of Secession's ugly frame;
The horse he would get hungry, as most of horses do,
They had to keep the collar tight, to keep from pulling through.

CHORUS
Ho! Bully for the wagon,
The new Secession wagon;
Oh! Beaury hold the nag in,
While you all take a ride,
  Oh! Beaury hold the nag in,
  While you all take a ride.

2.
The axles wanted greasing -- the body was not wide,
North Carolina jump'd into its Missippippi by her side;
Virginia took a cushion'd seat, and Louisiana next,
South Carolina got to ["scremging"?] and Florida got vex'd.

(CHORUS)

3.
They ask'd Kentuk to take a ride, she said "the horse was blind,"
She shook her head at seeing Tennessee jump on behind;
But Jeff, assur'd her "all was right," the wagon it was new,
Missouri wink'd at Beauregard, and said it would not do.

(CHORUS)

4.
Old Scott brought out his wagon -- [one?] that has run for years;
They caught Old Union, hitch'd him up, and greas'd the running gears.
Said Scott "McClellan, you're the [bow?] I want to full my place,
So take the reins, and get the folks, and give Secess a race."

(CHORUS)

5.
New York and Pennsylvania, with a host of Yankee boys,
Get up into the wagon, and they called for Illinois;
And old Ohio, she jumped in, Missouri tried her luck,
And Indiana threw her arm around good old Kentuck.

(CHORUS)

6.
Old Union threw his head back--he travelled rather slow,
Until they reached Manassas, they hallooed "let him go!"
Their cheers for Union made him put new mettle in his heel,
He run into "Secession"--tore the spokes out of the wheel.

(CHORUS)

7.
They took the broken wagon back, and put in all now spokes,
Secosh went towards Kentuck, to tell it to the folks,
Old Union started after, and he made the welkin ring,
When he run into Secession at a little place--"Mill Spring."

(CHORUS)

8.
Secosh got scared and run away--the like was never seen,
Old Union threw his head back and sailed through Bowlinggreen;
Secosh run to the Cumberland, and could not get across,
He broke the reins that guided him, and trusted to the hoss.

(CHORUS)

9.
Old Union got his "dander up," and passed him "under way,"
He run into Fort Danelson but did not got to stay,
Tennessee fell out the wagon, and the balance of them cried,
And asked McClellan as he passed, "Say, Mister, let us ride."

(CHORUS)

10.
Now Buckner he's gone up the spout, and Floyd has seen the sights,
And all the boys that went away with Buckner for their "rights,"
Ah! boys, you've seen the elephant--I hope it won't be long,
Till you'll be singing out with joy, "The Union, right or wrong."

(CHORUS)
